content/rc/databases/view-edit-database.md, before:

---
Title: View and edit databases
description:
weight: 20
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rc/administration/setup-and-editing/viewing-editing-database/
        /rv/administration/setup_and_editing/viewing-editing-databases/
        /rc/administration/setup/edit-database/
        /rc/administration/setup/edit-database.md
---

Use the **Databases** menu of the admin console to manage your subscription databases.

To view the details of a database:

1. Sign in to the Redis Cloud [admin portal](https://app.redislabs.com/new/).  (Create an account if you don't already have one.)

2.  Locate the database in the list.

3.  Select the database name to open the **Database** page.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-general-flexible.png" width="75%" alt="The Configuration tab of the Database details screen." >}}{{< /image >}}

The **Database** screen lets you review:
- Configuration details of a database
- Graphs showing performance metrics
- Recent activity via a "slowlog," which lists queries that exceed a certain [execution time](https://redis.io/commands/slowlog).

To change database settings, see [Edit database details](#edit-database-details),

## Configuration details tab

The **Configuration details** screen is divided into sections, each dedicated to a specific category.  Note that not every section or setting is available to every [subscription plan]({{< relref "rc/subscriptions/" >}}).

### General settings

The **General** section defines basic properties about your database.

The available settings vary according to your subscription plan, cloud provider, and design choices.  For example, if you do not select a module when crating a database, the **Module** setting is not displayed when you view its configuration details.

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Database Name** | The name given to your database |
| **Public endpoint** | Public URI used by any application or client to access the database. |
| **Private endpoint** | Private endpoint URI available to approved clients; use CIDR allow list and VPC peering to enabled access (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_)|
| **Protocol** | Either 'redis' or 'memcached' based on the value selected when the database was created |
| **Redis version** | Redis version used to create the database |
| **Redis on Flash** | Checked when the subscription supports Redis on Flash (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) |
| **Activated on** | Date and time the database was created |
| **Active-Active Redis** | Checked when the database is part of an Active-Active relationship (_coming soon; Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) |
| **Last changed** | Date and time of last update |
| **Protocol**  | Describes the protocol of the database, typically _Redis_ |
| **Module** | This setting appears when when a [module]({{< relref "modules/" >}}) is enabled for a database  |

### Scalability section

The **Scalability** section describes the memory size, throughput, and hashing policy for a database.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-scalability-flexible.png" alt="Use the Scalability section to control the size, throughput, and hashing policy for a database." >}}{{< /image >}}

The **Scalability** section is available only for Flexible and Annual plans.

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Memory limit** | Maximum size (in GB) for your database |
| **Memory used** | Memory currently used for your database  |
| **Throughput** | Defines throughput in terms of maximum operations per second for the database
| **Shards** | Defines the throughput in terms of shards dedicated to the database
| **Hashing policy** | Defines the [hashing policy]({{< relref "/rs/concepts/high-availability/clustering.md#changing-the-hashing-policy" >}}) |
| **Cluster OSS** | Enables the [OSS Cluster API]({{< relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/networking/using-oss-cluster-api.md" >}}) for a database<br/><br/>When this option is enabled, you cannot define a custom hashing policy|

To learn more about these settings and when to use them, see [Database clustering]({{< relref "/rs/concepts/high-availability/clustering.md" >}}).

### Durability section

The Durability section helps protect your data when problems occur.  These settings define replication, persistence, backup, and eviction policies.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-durability-flexible.png" alt="Use the Durability  section to protect your data from unexpected problems." >}}{{< /image >}}

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **High availability** | Replicates your data across multiple nodes, as allowed by your subscription plan |
| **Data persistence** | Defines whether (and how) data is saved to disk; [available options]({{< relref "/rc/databases/configuration/data-persistence.md" >}}) depend on your plan type |
| **Data eviction policy** | Defines what happens when your database reaches its [memory size limit]({{< relref "/rc/databases/configuration/data-eviction-policies.md" >}}) |
| **Remote backup** | (_paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annual subscriptions only_) When enabled, identifies a location and interval for [data backups]({{< relref "/rc/databases/back-up-data.md" >}}). |
| **Active-passive Redis** | (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) When enabled, identifies a path to the linked database. |

### Security section

The **Security** section helps you control access to your database.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-security-flexible.png" alt="Use the Security settings to control access to your database." >}}{{< /image >}}


|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Default user** | When enabled, permits access using a simple password |
| **Redis password** | Password assigned to the database when created |  
| **CIDR allow list** | (_paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annual subscriptions only_) Range of IP addresses/security groups allowed to [access the database]({{< relref "/rc/security/cidr-whitelist.md" >}})|
| **Transport layer security (TLS)** | (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) Enables [transport security layer]({{< relref "/rc/security/database-security/tls-ssl.md" >}})(TLS) encryption for database access.|

### Alerts section


The **Alerts** section defines notification emails sent to your account and the conditions that trigger them.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-alerts-flexible.png" alt="The Alerts section defines the notification emails and their triggering conditions." >}}{{< /image >}}

The available alerts vary according to the subscription type.

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Dataset size has reached** | When enabled, sends an an email when the database reaches the defined memory size _(Free, Flexible, or Annuals plans only_)|
| **Total size of datasets under this plan reached** | When enabled, sends an an email when the database reaches the defined memory size _(paid Fixed plans only_)|
| **Throughput is higher than** | When enabled, sends an email when the operations per second exceed the defined threshold _(paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annuals plans only_)|
| **Throughput is lower than** | When enabled, sends an email when the operations per second falls below the defined threshold _(paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annuals plans only_)|
| **Latency is higher than** | When enabled, sends an an email when the latency exceeds the defined memory size _(paid Fixed plans only_)|
| **Number of connections** | When enabled, sends an email when the connections exceeds the defined limit.  _(Free and Fixed plans only)_|
| **Replica Of - database unable to sync with source** | When enabled, sends email when the replica database cannot sync with the primary (source) database _(Flexible or Annuals plans only_) |
| **Replica Of - sync lag is higher than** | When enabled, sends email when the sync lag exceeds the defined threshold _(Flexible or Annuals plans only_) |

### Danger zone 

Actions in the **Danger Zone** are permanent and should not be taken lightly.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-danger-flexible.png" alt="The Danger Zone includes activities that impact data, such as deleting a database.  Use with care." >}}{{< /image >}}

Here, you can:

- Delete the database.

    When you choose this action, you're asked to confirm.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/database-delete-confirm-dialog.png" alt="The Delete database confirmation dialog confirms your decision to delete a database." >}}{{< /image >}}

    Databases must be active and empty before they can be deleted.  To learn more, see [Delete a database]({{< relref "/rc/databases/delete-database.md" >}}).

- Import data into the database.

    When you choose this action, you're asked to specify the source and location of the data to import

    {{<image filename="images/rc/database-import-dialog.png" alt="The Import data dialog helps you import data into a database." >}}{{< /image >}}

    To learn more, see [Import data]({{< relref "/rc/databases/import-data.md" >}}).

For best results, we recommend backing up data before starting any **Danger Zone** actions.

## Other actions and info

The **View Database** screen also has tabs that let you view:

- **Metrics**: a series of graphs showing database performance over time.  See [Monitor performance]({{< relref "/rc/databases/monitor-performance.md" >}})

- **Slowlog**: a log showing recent [slow queries](https://redis.io/commands/slowlog) run against your database.  The log displays when the action started, the duration, the complexity of the operation, and any parameters passed to the operation.

## Edit database details

Use the **Edit database** button to edit database details.

{{<image filename="images/rc/button-database-edit.png" alt="The Edit database button lets you change selected database properties." >}}{{< /image >}}

Because databases exist within the context of a deployment, certain fields cannot be updated, especially those that might lead to data loss.

Here's what you can change: 

| Section | Setting | Comments |
|:-----------|:----------|:---------|
| General | Database name ||
| Scalability | Memory limit | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Throughput | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Hashing policy | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Cluster OSS | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| Durability | High-availability | _paid Fixed, Flexible, and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Data persistence | _paid Fixed, Flexible, and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Data eviction policy | |
| | Remote backup | _paid Fixed, Flexible,  Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Active-passive Redis | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| Security | Default user |
| | Default user password |
| | CIDR allow list | _paid Fixed, Flexible, and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Transport layer security (TLS) | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| Alerts | all available for subscription |

Choose **Save database** to save your changes.

{{<image filename="images/rc/button-database-save.png" alt="Use the Save database button to save database changes." >}}{{< /image >}}

If you need to change other details, create a new database and then migrate existing data.

Commit message:

Adding section describing how to manage the database list.

content/rc/databases/view-edit-database.md, after:

---
Title: View and edit databases
description:
weight: 20
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rc/administration/setup-and-editing/viewing-editing-database/
        /rv/administration/setup_and_editing/viewing-editing-databases/
        /rc/administration/setup/edit-database/
        /rc/administration/setup/edit-database.md
---

Use the **Databases** menu of the admin console to manage your subscription databases.

To view the details of a database:

1. Sign in to the Redis Cloud [admin portal](https://app.redislabs.com/new/).  (Create an account if you don't already have one.)

2.  Locate the database in the list.

3.  Select the database name to open the **Database** page.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-general-flexible.png" width="75%" alt="The Configuration tab of the Database details screen." >}}{{< /image >}}

The **Database** screen lets you review:
- Configuration details of a database
- Graphs showing performance metrics
- Recent activity via a "slowlog," which lists queries that exceed a certain [execution time](https://redis.io/commands/slowlog).

For help changing database settings, see [Edit database details](#edit-database-details),

## Manage the database list

The **Databases** list summarizes the status of all databases from the subscriptions associated with your account.  

You can:

- Sort the list in descending or ascending order using the the arrow displayed to right of the field name in the header.  Supported fields include _Subscription_, _Name_, and _Memory_.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/icon-database-list-sort-ascending.png" alt="Use the arrows in the list header to sort the list." >}}{{< /image >}} {{<image filename="images/rc/icon-database-list-sort-descending.png" alt="The direction of the arrow corresponds to the direction of the sort." >}}{{< /image >}}
    
    Select the arrow icon to change the sort order.  One sort order can be active at any given time.

- Use the Filter icon displayed to the right of the field name in the header to display string matches for that field.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/icon-database-list-filter-normal.png" alt="Use the filter icon in the list header to filter the list." >}}{{< /image >}}

    You can filter the list on **Subscription**, **Name**, **Endpoint**, and **Options**.  String matches are _not_ case sensitive.  You can specify more than one filter expression at a time.  

    The icon is circled when a filter is active.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/icon-database-list-filter-active.png" alt="Active filters display a circle in the icon." >}}{{< /image >}}

- Use the controls in the list footer to change the number of items displayed in the list or to navigate.

Sort orders and filter expressions are not saved between console sessions.

## Configuration details tab

The **Configuration details** screen is divided into sections, each dedicated to a specific category.  Note that not every section or setting is available to every [subscription plan]({{< relref "rc/subscriptions/" >}}).

### General settings

The **General** section defines basic properties about your database.

The available settings vary according to your subscription plan, cloud provider, and design choices.  For example, if you do not select a module when crating a database, the **Module** setting is not displayed when you view its configuration details.

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Database Name** | The name given to your database |
| **Public endpoint** | Public URI used by any application or client to access the database. |
| **Private endpoint** | Private endpoint URI available to approved clients; use CIDR allow list and VPC peering to enabled access (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_)|
| **Protocol** | Either 'redis' or 'memcached' based on the value selected when the database was created |
| **Redis version** | Redis version used to create the database |
| **Redis on Flash** | Checked when the subscription supports Redis on Flash (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) |
| **Activated on** | Date and time the database was created |
| **Active-Active Redis** | Checked when the database is part of an Active-Active relationship (_coming soon; Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) |
| **Last changed** | Date and time of last update |
| **Protocol**  | Describes the protocol of the database, typically _Redis_ |
| **Module** | This setting appears when when a [module]({{< relref "modules/" >}}) is enabled for a database  |

### Scalability section

The **Scalability** section describes the memory size, throughput, and hashing policy for a database.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-scalability-flexible.png" alt="Use the Scalability section to control the size, throughput, and hashing policy for a database." >}}{{< /image >}}

The **Scalability** section is available only for Flexible and Annual plans.

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Memory limit** | Maximum size (in GB) for your database |
| **Memory used** | Memory currently used for your database  |
| **Throughput** | Defines throughput in terms of maximum operations per second for the database
| **Shards** | Defines the throughput in terms of shards dedicated to the database
| **Hashing policy** | Defines the [hashing policy]({{< relref "/rs/concepts/high-availability/clustering.md#changing-the-hashing-policy" >}}) |
| **Cluster OSS** | Enables the [OSS Cluster API]({{< relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/networking/using-oss-cluster-api.md" >}}) for a database<br/><br/>When this option is enabled, you cannot define a custom hashing policy|

To learn more about these settings and when to use them, see [Database clustering]({{< relref "/rs/concepts/high-availability/clustering.md" >}}).

### Durability section

The Durability section helps protect your data when problems occur.  These settings define replication, persistence, backup, and eviction policies.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-durability-flexible.png" alt="Use the Durability  section to protect your data from unexpected problems." >}}{{< /image >}}

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **High availability** | Replicates your data across multiple nodes, as allowed by your subscription plan |
| **Data persistence** | Defines whether (and how) data is saved to disk; [available options]({{< relref "/rc/databases/configuration/data-persistence.md" >}}) depend on your plan type |
| **Data eviction policy** | Defines what happens when your database reaches its [memory size limit]({{< relref "/rc/databases/configuration/data-eviction-policies.md" >}}) |
| **Remote backup** | (_paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annual subscriptions only_) When enabled, identifies a location and interval for [data backups]({{< relref "/rc/databases/back-up-data.md" >}}). |
| **Active-passive Redis** | (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) When enabled, identifies a path to the linked database. |

### Security section

The **Security** section helps you control access to your database.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-security-flexible.png" alt="Use the Security settings to control access to your database." >}}{{< /image >}}


|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Default user** | When enabled, permits access using a simple password |
| **Redis password** | Password assigned to the database when created |  
| **CIDR allow list** | (_paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annual subscriptions only_) Range of IP addresses/security groups allowed to [access the database]({{< relref "/rc/security/cidr-whitelist.md" >}})|
| **Transport layer security (TLS)** | (_Flexible or Annual subscriptions only_) Enables [transport security layer]({{< relref "/rc/security/database-security/tls-ssl.md" >}})(TLS) encryption for database access.|

### Alerts section


The **Alerts** section defines notification emails sent to your account and the conditions that trigger them.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-alerts-flexible.png" alt="The Alerts section defines the notification emails and their triggering conditions." >}}{{< /image >}}

The available alerts vary according to the subscription type.

|Setting name|Description|
|:-----------|:----------|
| **Dataset size has reached** | When enabled, sends an an email when the database reaches the defined memory size _(Free, Flexible, or Annuals plans only_)|
| **Total size of datasets under this plan reached** | When enabled, sends an an email when the database reaches the defined memory size _(paid Fixed plans only_)|
| **Throughput is higher than** | When enabled, sends an email when the operations per second exceed the defined threshold _(paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annuals plans only_)|
| **Throughput is lower than** | When enabled, sends an email when the operations per second falls below the defined threshold _(paid Fixed, Flexible, or Annuals plans only_)|
| **Latency is higher than** | When enabled, sends an an email when the latency exceeds the defined memory size _(paid Fixed plans only_)|
| **Number of connections** | When enabled, sends an email when the connections exceeds the defined limit.  _(Free and Fixed plans only)_|
| **Replica Of - database unable to sync with source** | When enabled, sends email when the replica database cannot sync with the primary (source) database _(Flexible or Annuals plans only_) |
| **Replica Of - sync lag is higher than** | When enabled, sends email when the sync lag exceeds the defined threshold _(Flexible or Annuals plans only_) |

### Danger zone 

Actions in the **Danger Zone** are permanent and should not be taken lightly.

{{<image filename="images/rc/database-details-configuration-tab-danger-flexible.png" alt="The Danger Zone includes activities that impact data, such as deleting a database.  Use with care." >}}{{< /image >}}

Here, you can:

- Delete the database.

    When you choose this action, you're asked to confirm.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/database-delete-confirm-dialog.png" alt="The Delete database confirmation dialog confirms your decision to delete a database." >}}{{< /image >}}

    Databases must be active and empty before they can be deleted.  To learn more, see [Delete a database]({{< relref "/rc/databases/delete-database.md" >}}).

- Import data into the database.

    When you choose this action, you're asked to specify the source and location of the data to import

    {{<image filename="images/rc/database-import-dialog.png" alt="The Import data dialog helps you import data into a database." >}}{{< /image >}}

    To learn more, see [Import data]({{< relref "/rc/databases/import-data.md" >}}).

For best results, we recommend backing up data before starting any **Danger Zone** actions.

## Other actions and info

The **View Database** screen also has tabs that let you view:

- **Metrics**: a series of graphs showing database performance over time.  See [Monitor performance]({{< relref "/rc/databases/monitor-performance.md" >}})

- **Slowlog**: a log showing recent [slow queries](https://redis.io/commands/slowlog) run against your database.  The log displays when the action started, the duration, the complexity of the operation, and any parameters passed to the operation.

## Edit database details

Use the **Edit database** button to edit database details.

{{<image filename="images/rc/button-database-edit.png" alt="The Edit database button lets you change selected database properties." >}}{{< /image >}}

Because databases exist within the context of a deployment, certain fields cannot be updated, especially those that might lead to data loss.

Here's what you can change: 

| Section | Setting | Comments |
|:-----------|:----------|:---------|
| General | Database name ||
| Scalability | Memory limit | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Throughput | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Hashing policy | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Cluster OSS | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| Durability | High-availability | _paid Fixed, Flexible, and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Data persistence | _paid Fixed, Flexible, and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Data eviction policy | |
| | Remote backup | _paid Fixed, Flexible,  Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Active-passive Redis | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| Security | Default user |
| | Default user password |
| | CIDR allow list | _paid Fixed, Flexible, and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| | Transport layer security (TLS) | _Flexible and Annual subscriptions only)_ |
| Alerts | all available for subscription |

Choose **Save database** to save your changes.

{{<image filename="images/rc/button-database-save.png" alt="Use the Save database button to save database changes." >}}{{< /image >}}

If you need to change other details, create a new database and then migrate existing data.
