---
Title: RedisInsight Release Notes 1.10
date: 2021-03-08 00:00:00 +0000
description: RedisInsight v1.10.0
weight: 94
---

## 1.10.1

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight 1.10 (v1.10.1)!

### Fixes:

- Core:
  - Fixed a bug where launching RedisInsight on macOS mojave (10.14.6) would log out the user.
  - Fixed two major container vulnerability. (CVE-2021-24031, CVE-2021-24032 and CVE-2020-36242)
  - Select existing installation path on upgrades in Windows.
- CLI:
  - Added support for RAW mode (`--raw` in `redis-cli`).
- Browser:
  - Fixed a bug where a number in redis string datatype is treated as a JSON .
  -  RedisJSON - Distinguish between empty and collapsed objects/arrays.
- Streams:
  - Added ability to configure auto refresh interval.
- RedisTimeseries:
  - Charts now support milliseconds.
  - Added ability to configure auto refresh interval.
- RedisGraph:
  - Properly detect module in Redis Enterprise
  - Large queries that are truncated in the query card is provided with a tooltip that displays the query on hover.
  - Properly render boolean data types in the objects.
- Bulk actions:
  - Fixed a bug where preview returns duplicate dry run commands.


## 1.10.0

This is the General Availability Release of RedisInsight 1.10 (v1.10.0)!

### Headlines:
- Improvements to the way the Browser tool displays "special" strings.
- UX improvements to the RedisGraph tool.
- Ability to configure the slowlog threshold from within the Slowlog tool.

### Full Details:
- Overview:
    - The connection details of the Redis database are now displayed.
    - A message is displayed to indicate a cluster with no replicas instead of an empty table.
    - Fixed a bug where the memory usage chart would display an incorrect graph when the memory usage changes rapidly.
- Browser:
    - Pretty-print "special" strings (like JSON, Java serialized object, Python pickle objects, etc.) once the entire value is loaded.
    - Pretty-print "special" strings (like JSON, Java serialized object, Python pickle objects, etc.) inside container types like Hashes, Sets and Sorted Sets.
    - Allow sorting the members of a sorted set by score.
    - Refresh button for the key list.
    - Delete a key by pressing the "Delete" key.
    - All keys are now visible by default, i.e, the data type filters are disabled by default.
    - Fixed bug where switching logical databases did not work correctly sometimes.
    - Fixed bug where adding a field to a hash with an empty value crashes the UI.
    - Fixed bug where setting TTL to -1 does not effectively delete the key.
    - Added tooltip explaining how to use the logical database selector along with a submit button.
- Streams:
    - Refresh button for the list of streams.
- RedisGraph:
    - Node size is now dependent on the number of direct relationships.
    - Added support for pasting the full `GRAPH.QUERY` command into the query textbox.
- RediSearch:
    - Fixed bug where the application fails to execute queries on indices starting with/enclosed within single-quotes.
- Bulk Actions:
    - Improved support for operations on a large number of keys.
- Slowlog:
    - Allow configuring the slowlog threshold from within the tool for non-cluster databases.
