---
Title: RedisInsight v1.12, May 2022
linkTitle: v1.12 (May 2022)
date: 2022-05-24 00:00:00 +0000
description: RedisInsight v1.12.0
weight: 2
---

## 1.12.1 (July 2022)

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight 1.12 (v1.12.1)!

### Critical Bug Fix:
- Core:
  - When adding or removing a Redis Enterprise Software or Redis Enterprise Cloud database in RedisInsight v1 that has the RediSearch module loaded, all hashes within that database would be deleted.

### Fixes:
- Core:
  - Added curl command to container.
  - Fixed container vulnerabilities (CVE-2022-1292, CVE-2022-2068).
- RediSearch:
  - Fixed index info to report correct information for RediSearch v2.
- Profiling:
  - Added support for profiling module commands.
  - Added support for viewing information of clients that use IPv6 addresses.
- RedisGraph:
  - Added support for `RO_QUERY` only mode. Now RedisGraph can work with just `RO_QUERY` command.

## 1.12.0 (May 2022)

This is the General Availability Release of RedisInsight 1.12 (v1.12.0)!

## Headlines:
- [Authenticate database users](https://docs.redis.com/latest/ri/using-redisinsight/auth-database/): Ask for database username and password
- Support for `GRAPH.RO_QUERY` command in RedisGraph tool.
- Support for variable CPU in RedisAI tool.

## Full Details

### Core
- [Authenticate database users](https://docs.redis.com/latest/ri/using-redisinsight/auth-database/): Ask for database username and password
  - If enabled, each time a user attempts to open a database previously added to RedisInsight, a form to enter username and password is displayed. This form displays also if a user is idle for a configurable amount of time.
- Fix major container vulnerabilities.
- Decrease Docker image size by discarding unnecessary contents.
- Streams
  - Fix slowdown and crash while loading large streams data.
  - Use UTC time for stream id timestamp.
- Graph
  - Allow scanning for more keys.
  - Add support for `GRAPH.RO_QUERY` command.
- Browser
  - Fix **Delete key** dialog box that displays when no key is selected.
- RedisAI
  - Add support for variable CPU number.
