---
Title: RedisInsight v1.2, January 2020
linkTitle: v1.2 (Jan 2020)
date: 2020-01-27 00:00:00 +0000
description: TLS Client side authentication support and stability improvements
weight: 98
---
## RedisInsight v1.2.2 release notes

Update urgency: Medium

This is a maintenance release for version 1.2.

### Details

- Bug Fixes:
    - Core:
        - This releases fixes the possible __false positive__ malware issues flagged by certain antivirus vendors introduced by [pyinstaller](https://github.com/pyinstaller/pyinstaller/issues/4633) which was reported on [reddit](https://www.reddit.com/r/redis/comments/f1qapz/redisinsight_cotains_malware/).

## RedisInsight v1.2.1 release notes

Update urgency: Medium

This is a maintenance release for version 1.2.

### Details

- Enhancements:
    - Core:
        - Upgrade notifications: When you open RedisInsight, a notification is shown if a new version is available.
    - RediSearch:
        - Support for [RediSearch 1.6](https://github.com/RediSearch/RediSearch/releases/tag/v1.6.7).
- Minor Bug Fixes:
    - RedisTimeSeries:
        - Time was interpreted as seconds instead of milliseconds as ([Issue 332](https://github.com/RedisTimeSeries/RedisTimeSeries/issues/332))

## RedisInsight v1.2.0 release notes

### Headlines

- This release improves overall stability and provides fixes for issues found after the previous release.
- Added support for Client side TLS authentication.
- Resolved bug which caused blank pages at startup.

### Details

- New features:
    - Core:
        - Added support for Redis databases that require TLS client authentication (as in Redis Enterprise)
    - RedisTimeseries:
        - Initial `auto-updating` functionality when the query's end timestamp is `+`
- Minor Enhancements:
    - Core:
        - Check whether the port is available before starting.
        - Made `localhost` the default host instead of `0.0.0.0`.
        - Improved logging during startup.
    - RedisGraph:
        - Fixed height of query cards.
    - RediSearch:
        - Add support for zero-length and whitespace-only index names.
- Bug Fixes:
    - Core:
        - Moved server to another thread instead of a separate process.
        In certain situations, the server process was being orphaned after the main process died. This resulted in a several issues, of which the "blank page issue" was the most common. Now that the server process is in a thread instead of a process, the server is not left running when the process exits.
    - RediSearch:
        - Fixed several bugs in the display of summarized results in the table view.
    - Browser:
        - Better handling of unsupported values - link to other tools that support it or show better error message.
        - Fixed UI issues when the screen size is varied to provide better responsiveness.
