---
Title: RedisInsight Release Notes 1.3 
date: 2020-03-30 00:00:00 +0000
description: Auto-discovery of Redis Cloud databases, visualising paths in RedisGraph
weight: 97
---

## RedisInsight v1.3.1 release notes

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight 1.3 (v1.3.1).

Update urgency: Medium

### Headlines

- Fixed support for connecting to Redis database on TLS-enabled hosts with SNI enforcement.

### Details

- Bug Fixes:
    - Core:
        - Fixed support for connecting to Redis database on TLS-enabled hosts with SNI enforcement.
    - Memory Analysis
        - Fixed wrong display of table columns in Memory Analyzer view.
    - Browser
        - Fixed bug where the TTL on string and RedisJSON keys was being reset on edit.
    - Configuration:
        - Fixed freezing/flashing on refreshing configuration.
    - CLI
        - Fixed minor visual bug in inline command documentation.
    - Security
        - Updated frontend dependencies that had developed security vulnerabilities.

## RedisInsight v1.3.0 release notes

This is the General Availability release of RedisInsight 1.3 (v1.3.0)!

### Headlines

- The Windows installer is now signed with a Microsoft Authenticode certificate.
- Auto-Discovery of databases for Redis Cloud Pro.
- Visualising paths in RedisGraph

### Details

- Features:
    - Security:
        - The Windows installer now signed with a Microsoft Authenticode certificate
    - Core:
        - Auto-Discovery for Redis Cloud Pro: Redis Cloud Pro subscribers can automatically add
          their cloud databases with just a few clicks
        - Support for editing the connection details of an added database
        - Better support for Sentinel-monitored databases with different passwords for the sentinel instance(s) and database
        - UI improvements to the add database form
        - Added a button in the top-right menu to reach the online documentation with one click
    - RedisGraph:
        - Added support for visualising queries that use [path functions](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisgraph/commands/#path-functions)
    - Memory Analysis:
        - Added support for [virtual hosted-style](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonS3/latest/dev/VirtualHosting.html#virtual-hosted-style-access) S3 paths for Offline Analysis
    - Browser:
        - Added tooltip to make it easier to view the name of long keys

- Bug Fixes:
    - Core:
        - Fixed fonts that were being loaded from the Internet, causing jarring visual changes on slow connections
    - RedisGraph:
        - Improved rendering of Array records
        - Removed `GRAPH.EXPLAIN` calls for now until we have execution plan visualisation
