---
Title: RedisInsight Release Notes 1.6 
date: 2020-06-10 00:00:00 +0000
description: Rootless Docker container, Copy keys in Browser and Stream UX improvements
weight: 95
---

## 1.6.3

Maintenance release for RedisInsight 1.6 including bug fixes and enhancements.

### Headlines:

- Mac application is now getting notarized which simplifies the installation process on OS X
- Fixed the resize of the keys explorer allowing to see long keys
- Fixed filtering of keys in the browser with the filter capability in the browser

### Full details:

Enhancements and bug fixes
  - Core:
    - Mac application is properly signed and notarized on Apple services.
  - Browser:
    - Fixed resizing the key explorer allows to see more characters of long keys.
    - Asynchronous loading of keys in large databases (discovered keys are actionable while search continues).
    - Improved performance for exact key searches (when search pattern is not using *).
    - Improved UI showing the progress of scanning the keys in the database.
    - Fixed filtering the keys by data structures could be  to wrong.
    - Fixed behavior of EXISTS and TYPE command when those have ACL restrictions.
    - Fixed behavior when keys matching filters have ACL restrictions.
    - Improved “Stop Scan” button behavior to respond immediately.
    - Added visual indicator to show that by default, the browser is filtering out inner keys from modules.

## 1.6.2

Maintenance release for RedisInsight 1.6 including bug fixes and enhancements.

### Headlines:

- Performance improvements to Profiler tool for TLS-enabled databases.
- Bugfix: Feedback button was not visible.

### Full details:

- Enhancements and bug fixes
  - Core:
      - Bugfix: Feedback button was not visible.
  - Profiler:
      - The native code implementation of the profiling logic was updated to add full support for TLS connections to Redis.
  - Graph:
      - Updated to use a newer version of the Ogma graph visualization library.
  - Analytics:
      - Bugfix: Report the OS/platform correctly.

## 1.6.1

Maintenance release for RedisInsight 1.6 including bug fixes and enhancements.

### Headlines:

- Improved support for Redis 6 ACLs with Cluster and Sentinel databases
- Added support for Redis Cluster in RedisGraph tool
- UX improvements for RedisGraph tool
- Enriched captured usage events

### Full details:

- Enhancements and bug fixes
  - Core:
    - Improved support for Redis 6 ACLs with Cluster and Sentinel databases
    - Added events capturing usage of RedisInsight
  - Graph:
    - Add support for Redis Cluster
    - Added option to configure labels to be displayed in graph's nodes (right-click on the node)
    - Added ability to submit query with 'ctrl + enter' in single line mode
  - TimeSeries:
    - Added ability to submit query with 'ctrl + enter' in single line mode
  - RediSearch:
    - Added ability to submit query with 'ctrl + enter' in single line mode
    - Better handling of long index names in index selector dropdown
    - Fixed bug with pagination on queries with whitespace in the query string
  - Gears:
    - Added button to remove an execution from executed functions list
    - Added option to get rid of the warning message when executing a function 
    - Fixed error message when it's impossible to visualize the graph
  - Streams:
    - Added persistence of user's selected stream columns when switching pages

## 1.6.0

This is the General Availability Release of RedisInsight 1.6!

### Headlines:

- RedisInsight docker container is now rootless being compliant with best practices for containers
- The Browser gets improved to allow quick copy of keys and resizing of the key explorer
- Streams is now allowing to sort entries by timestamp, active/unactive live streaming of entries and keep persisted user's selection of fields to save context when switching between streams or other tools of RedisInsight. 
- New telemetry system allowing to capture tools usage and updated privacy settings

### Full details:

- Features
  - Core:
    - Improved docker container by making it rootless
    - Added visual indicator to show configured user when connecting to Redis 6 using ACLs
    - Improved navigation to application's settings
  - Browser:
    - Added ability to resize the Key explorer panel
    - Added options to easily copy keys
    - Added ability to filter out the inner keys
  - Streams: 
    - Added persisting selected fields to be displayed to save context when switching to another stream or tool of RedisInsight 
    - Added ability to sort entries "ascending" or "descending" based on the timestamp
    - Added ability to active/unactive the live streaming of events 
    - Updated timestamp font family for consistency
  - CLI:
    - Added ACL commands hints and summary info in CLI

- Bug Fixes:
  - Core:
    - Fixed issue fetching data from Redis Enterprise Cloud and replica enabled
  - Browser:
    - Fixed issue not shown field named "key" in hash keys
    - Fixed wrong number of database's keys being displayed
    - Fixed error when trying to view a Java serialized object
  - Stream:
    - Fixed issue with live streaming of entries
    - Fixed UI when no entries are present in a stream
  - Bulk Actions:
    - Fixed responsiveness of the UI
  - RedisGears:
    - Fixed focus on editor and display of requirements
