---
Title: RedisInsight v1.7, September 2020
linkTitle: v1.7 (Sep 2020)
date: 2020-09-10 00:00:00 +0000
description: RediSearch 2.0 support and stability improvements
weight: 93
---

## 1.7.1 (October 2020)

Maintenance release for RedisInsight 1.7 including bug fixes and enhancements.

### Headlines:

- Core:
    - New public health-check API to make monitoring deployments easier.
    - Display progress information during memory analysis.

### Full details:

Enhancements and bug fixes
- Core:
    - Fixed support for TLS in Redis Cluster databases.
    - Application name is properly capitalized on MacOSX.
    - Fixed update notifications on Docker - Now links to Docker Hub page and provides instructions for updating.
- Memory Analysis:
    - Information about the current stage of analysis is now displayed while the analysis runs.
    - Fixed issue with running Memory Analysis on MacOSX (related to system OpenSSL libraries).
- Browser:
    - Visual improvements to key details view to improve the experience working with long key names.
- CLI:
    - Improvements for Redis Cluster databases - Controls to target specific nodes, all nodes, only masters/replicas, etc.
- Streams:
    - Fixed consumer groups functionality on Redis Cluster databases.
- Telemetry:
    - Report specific modules even when the `MODULE LIST` command is not available.

## 1.7.0 (September 2020)

### Headlines:

- Support for [RediSearch 2.0](https://redislabs.com/blog/introducing-redisearch-2-0/)

### Full Details:

- Core:
    - Added explanation of the supported subscription types for Redis Enterprise Cloud database auto-discovery.
    - Fixed a bug where upgrading from some previous versions would give an error on startup.
    - Use a non-root group by default for the RedisInsight Docker container.
- Memory Analysis:
    - Improved UI for offline analysis via RDB file stored in S3.
    - Fixed bug where using RDB stored in S3 sub-folder would fail.
- Browser:
    - Improved support for searching members of large collections (hashes, sets and sorted sets).
- Streams:
    - Improved UX for the handle to resize key selector.
- RediSearch:
    - Fixed support for Redis Enterprise Cloud Essentials databases.
- RedisGraph:
    - Fixed an issue where localstorage is filled with unnecessary data.
- Analytics:
    - Reporting the subscription type for auto-discovered Redis Enterprise Cloud databases.
