---
Title: RedisInsight v2.0, Nov 2021
linkTitle: v2.0 (Nov 2021)
date: 2021-11-23 00:00:00 +0000
description: RedisInsight v2.0.2
weight: 90
aliases: /ri/release-notes/v2.0.2/
         /ri/release-notes/v2.0.2.md
---

## 2.0.6 (April 2022)
This is the General Availability (GA) release of RedisInsight 2.0.6

### Headlines:
- SNI support - added SNI support to indicate a hostname in the TLS handshake
- Save Profiler logs into a file - now you can save and download Profiler logs into a .TXT file
- Customize delimiters in Tree view - added support for custom delimiters in Tree view
- Support for node grouping and pulsing in RedisGraph visualizations in Workbench

### Details
**Features and improvements:**
- [#548](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/548), [#542](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/542) Added SNI support - use the "Add Database Manually" form to see the new "Use SNI" option under the TLS section to specify the server name and connect to your Redis Database
- [#521](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/521/files) Added an option to save Profiler logs. Enable saving before starting the Profiler to save the logs into a .TXT file and download it to analyze them outside of the application
- [#496](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/496) Now you can specify your own delimiters to work with namespaces in the Tree view, default delimiter is colon (':')
- [#473](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/473) Added a link to GitHub repository of RedisInsight to quickly find and access it - you can see the icon below the "Settings"
- [#586](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/586) Added support for node grouping and pulsing in the visualisations for RedisGraph in Workbench
- [#455](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/455) Limited the movement of the special editor with Cypher highlights to Workbench Editor area (to work with it, just type in RedisGraph commands in Workbench)
- [#462](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/462) Provided additional information about database indexes in the form to add a database using host and port, and changed the UI validation of the field to support values from 0 to 99
- [#489](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/489) Reworked user experience with filters per key type and key name in Browser 
- [#535](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/535) Added highlights of timestamps and improved text wrapping in Profiler


### Bug fixes:
- [#581](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/581) Fixed the issue with displaying keys in multi-shard databases
- [#576](https://github.com/RedisInsight/RedisInsight/pull/576) Fixed encoding in Workbench



## 2.0.5 (March 2022, GA)

This is the General Availability (GA) release of RedisInsight 2.0.

### Headlines

* **Tree view** - A new view of the keys in Browser, which automatically groups keys scanned in your database into folders based on key namespaces. Now you can navigate through and analyze your list of keys quicker by opening only folders with namespaces you want.
* **Support for Apple M1 (arm64)** - You can download it [here](https://redis.com/redis-enterprise/redis-insight/#insight-form).
* **Added auto-discovery of local databases** - RedisInsight will automatically find and add your local databases when you open the application for the first time.
* **A dedicated Editor for Cypher syntax** - Workbench supports autocomplete and highlighting of Cypher syntax for RedisGraph queries. 

### Details

- You can switch to the Tree view in Browser to see all the keys grouped into folders according to their namespaces. Note that we use the colon (:) as a default separator, and it is not customizable yet.
- Added support for Apple M1 (arm64).
- Added a mechanism to auto-discover local databases based on the following parameters:
  - The mechanism only triggers when you open the application for the first time.
  - The database has standalone connection type.
  - The database uses the default username and requires no password or TLS certificates.
- Added new built-in guides in Workbench for additional capabilities.
- Added tutorials in Workbench for Redis Stack databases that describe common use cases for Redis capabilities.
- Added a new dedicated Editor to Workbench with support for Cypher syntax autocomplete and highlighting. Use the "Shift+Space" shortcut inside of the quotes for your query to open the dedicated Editor.
- Show modules uploaded to databases in the list of databases.
- Added support for returning to the previous command in Workbench Editor. Use arrow up when your cursor is at the beginning of the first row to return to the previous command. Note: there is no support for the reverse direction yet, so use it with caution.

If you installed RedisInsight-preview before, this folder will still exist at the following path:
* For MacOs: <usersHomeDir>/.redisinsight-preview
* For Windows: C:/Users/{Username}/.redisinsight-preview
* For Linux: <usersHomeDir>/.redisinsight-preview

## 2.0.4 (February 2022)

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight Preview 2.0 (v2.0.4)!

### Headlines

- Fixes to the issues found
- Profiler
  - Added RedisInsight Profiler, which uses the MONITOR command to analyze every command sent to the redis instance in real-time.
- Workbench:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete.
  - Keep command results previously received in the Workbench.
  - Support for repeating commands.
- CLI:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete.
  - Support for repeating commands.
- Command Helper:
  - Added information about RedisGears and RedisBloom Redis commands.

### Details

- Profiler
  - Added RedisInsight Profiler, which uses the MONITOR command to analyze every command sent to the redis instance in real-time. Note: Running the MONITOR command is dangerous to the performance of your production server, so run it reasonably and remember to stop the Profiler. 
- Workbench:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete, so the list of similar commands and their arguments are displayed when you start typing any RedisGears or RedisBloom commands.
  - Keep command results (up to 1MB) previously received in the Workbench, so they are available even after you restart the application. 
  - Connect Workbench to the database index selected when adding a database.
  - To repeat any command in Workbench, just enter any integer and then a Redis command with arguments.
- CLI:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete, so hints with arguments are displayed when you enter any RedisGears or RedisBloom commands
  - CLI is by default connected to the database index selected when adding a database. Added displaying of the database index connected.
  - To repeat any command in CLI, just enter any integer and then a Redis command with arguments.
- Command Helper:
  - Added information about RedisGears and RedisBloom Redis commands.
- Core:
  - Fixed an issue with displaying parameter values in the Overview when no information is received for these parameters.


## 2.0.3 (December 2021)

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight Preview 2.0 (v2.0.3).

### Headlines

- Workbench:
  - Added indications of commands
  - New hints with the list of command arguments
  - Reworked navigation for the built-in guides
- Help Center:
  - Added a page with list of supported keyboard shortcuts
- Core:
  - Uncoupled Command Helper from CLI
  - Renamed `ZSET` to Sorted Set

### Details

- Browser:
  - Changed the format of TTL in the list of keys
- CLI:
  - Fixed a bug with `FT.CREATE` command that rendered the window blank
- Workbench:
  - Fixed a bug to avoid executing the Redis command one more time when the view of results is changed
  - Added a new information message when there are no results to display
  - Added indications of commands (currently, not clickable) in Editor area to point out the lines where commands start
  - Added new hints in Editor to display the list of command arguments with the following keyboard shortcuts:
    - Ctrl+Shift+Space for Windows and Linux
    - ⌘ ⇧ Space for Mac
  - Added support for remembering the state (expanded or collapsed) for left side panel in Workbench
  - Reworked navigation for the built-in guides
  - Changed icons for default and custom plugins
- Command Helper:
  - Changed titles of command groups to make them consistent with redis.io
- Help Center:
  - Added a page with supported keyboard shortcuts
- Core:
  - Reworked logic to open CLI and Command Helper, added an option to open Command Helper without a need to open CLI
  - Changed fonts and colors across the application to enhance readability
  - Renamed `ZSET` to Sorted Set
  - Added description of RedisGears and RedisBloom commands to hints in CLI, Command Helper, and Workbench
  - Added support for automatic updates to the list of commands and their description in CLI, Command Helper, and Workbench

## 2.0.2 (November 2021)

This is the public preview release of RedisInsight 2.0 (v2.0.2).

RedisInsight 2.0 is a complete product rewrite based on a new tech stack. This version contains a number of must-have and most-used capabilities from previous releases, plus a number of differentiators and delights.

RedisInsight-preview 2.0 can be installed along with the current GA (1.11) version of RedisInsight with no issues.

### Headlines

- Developed using a new tech stack based on Electron, Elastic UI, and Monaco Editor
- Introducing Workbench - advanced command line interface with intelligent command auto-complete and complex data visualizations
- Ability to write and render your own data visualizations within Workbench
- Built-in click-through Redis guides available
- Support for Light and Dark themes
- Enhanced user experience with Browser

### Details

- Core:
  - Enhanced user experience with the list of databases:
    - View, sort and edit databases added
    - Multiple deletion of databases
  - Ability to connect to Redis Standalone, Redis Cluster and Redis Sentinel
  - Auto discovery of databases managed by Redis Enterprise, Redis Cloud (Flexible), and Redis Sentinel
  - Support for Redis OSS Cluster API
  - Support for TLS connection
  - Works with Microsoft Azure (official support upcoming)
- Workbench:
  - Advanced command-line interface that lets you run commands against your Redis server 
  - Workbench editor allows comments, multi-line formatting and multi-command execution
  - Intelligent Redis command auto-complete and syntax highlighting with support for [RediSearch](https://oss.redis.com/redisearch/), [RedisJSON](https://oss.redis.com/redisjson/), [RedisGraph](https://oss.redis.com/redisgraph/), [RedisTimeSeries](https://oss.redis.com/redistimeseries/), [RedisGears](https://oss.redis.com/redisgears/), [RedisAI](https://oss.redis.com/redisai/), [RedisBloom](https://oss.redis.com/redisbloom/)
  - Allows rendering custom data visualization per Redis command using externally developed plugins
- Browser:
  - Browse, filter and visualize key-value Redis data structures
    - Visual cues per data type
    - Quick view of size and ttl in the main browser view
    - Ability to filter by pattern and/or data type
    - Ability to change the number of keys to scan through during filtering
  - CRUD support for Lists, Hashes, Strings, Sets, Sorted Sets
    - Search within the data structure (except for Strings)
  - CRUD support for [RedisJSON](https://oss.redis.com/redisjson/)
- Database overview:
  - A number of metrics always on display within the database workspace
    - Metrics updated every 5 second
    - CPU, number of keys, commands/sec, network input, network output, total memory, number of connected clients
  - Enabled modules per Redis server listed
- CLI:
  - Command-line interface with enhanced type-ahead command help
  - Embedded command helper where you can filter and search for Redis commands
- RediSearch:
  - Tabular visualizations within Workbench of [RediSearch](https://oss.redis.com/redisearch/) index queries and aggregations (support for FT.INFO, FT.SEARCH and FT.AGGREGATE)
- Custom plugins:
  - Ability to build your own visualization plugins to be rendered within Workbench
  - [Documentation](https://github.com/redisinsight/redisinsight) on how to develop custom plugins and a reference example are provided
- Built-in guides:
  - Built-in click-through guides for Redis capabilities
  - Added a guide on Document Capabilities within Redis
- User interface (UI):
  - Light/dark themes available
  - Colour palette adjusted to the highest level of [Web content accessibility guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/)
- Data encryption:
  - Optional ability to encrypt sensitive data such as connection certificates and passwords
