---
Title: RedisInsight v2.0, Nov 2021
linkTitle: v2.0 (Nov 2021)
date: 2021-11-23 00:00:00 +0000
description: RedisInsight v2.0.2
weight: 90
---

### 2.0.5 (March 2022)

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight 2.0 (v2.0.5)!

### Headlines:
- Fixes to the issues found
- Removed "preview" from the application name
- Support for Apple M1 (arm64)
- Added Tree View to quickly find your keys according to their namespaces
- Added auto-discovery of local databases
- Added guides for additional Redis capabilities
- Introduced a dedicated Editor to work with Cypher syntax for Graph capabilities
- Added highlights for Redis Stack
- Modules uploaded to databases now displayed in the list of databases
- Introduce quick access to command history in the Workbench

### Full Details:
- We have removed the "preview" from the application name and icon, so our application is now GA! Though this is definitely only the start of the journey :)
- Added support for Apple M1 (arm64). You can downaload it [here](https://redis.com/redis-enterprise/redis-insight/#insight-form)
- Now Browser supports additional view - Tree view! So you can see all the keys grouped according to their namespaces to navigate and analyse them better. Note that we use the colon (:) as a default separator, and it is not customisable yet.
- Added a mechanism to auto-discover local databases based on the following parameters:
  - mechanism triggers only when you open the application for the very first time
  - database has standalone connection type
  - database uses default username, and requires no password or TLS certificates
- Added new built-in guides in Workbench for additional capabilities:
  - Graphs
  - Time Series
  - Vector Similarity Search
  - Probabilistic Data Structures
- Added additional tutorials for Redis Stack database that describe a common use case through leading Redis modules
- A new dedicated Editor has been added to Workbench with support for Cypher syntax. Use "Shift+Space" shortcuts inside of the quotes for your query to open the dedicated Editor and enjoy autocomplete and highlights for Cypher syntax.
- We highlight your Redis Stack database in the list of databases so you can find it quicker!
- Show modules uploaded to databases in the list of databases
- Added support for returning to the previous command in Workbench Editor - use arrow up when your cursor is at the beginning of the first row to return to the previous command. Note: there is no support for the reverse direction yet so use it wisely.


### 2.0.4 (February 2022)

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight Preview 2.0 (v2.0.4)!

### Headlines:
- Fixes to the issues found
- Profiler
  - Added RedisInsight Profiler, which uses the MONITOR command to analyze every command sent to the redis instance in real-time.
- Workbench:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete.
  - Keep command results previously received in the Workbench.
  - Support for repeating commands.
- CLI:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete.
  - Support for repeating commands.
- Command Helper:
  - Added information about RedisGears and RedisBloom Redis commands.

### Full Details:
- Profiler
  - Added RedisInsight Profiler, which uses the MONITOR command to analyze every command sent to the redis instance in real-time. Note: Running the MONITOR command is dangerous to the performance of your production server, so run it reasonably and remember to stop the Profiler. 
- Workbench:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete, so the list of similar commands and their arguments are displayed when you start typing any RedisGears or RedisBloom commands.
  - Keep command results (up to 1MB) previously received in the Workbench, so they are available even after you restart the application. 
  - Connect Workbench to the database index selected when adding a database.
  - To repeat any command in Workbench, just enter any integer and then a Redis command with arguments.
- CLI:
  - Added support for RedisGears and RedisBloom on the intelligent Redis command auto-complete, so hints with arguments are displayed when you enter any RedisGears or RedisBloom commands
  - CLI is by default connected to the database index selected when adding a database. Added displaying of the database index connected.
  - To repeat any command in CLI, just enter any integer and then a Redis command with arguments.
- Command Helper:
  - Added information about RedisGears and RedisBloom Redis commands.
- Core:
  - Fixed an issue with displaying parameter values in the Overview when no information is received for these parameters.


### 2.0.3 (December 2021)

This is the maintenance release of RedisInsight Preview 2.0 (v2.0.3).

### Headlines:

- Workbench:
  - Added indications of commands
  - New hints with the list of command arguments
  - Reworked navigation for the built-in guides
- Help Center:
  - Added a page with list of supported keyboard shortcuts
- Core:
  - Uncoupled Command Helper from CLI
  - Renamed `ZSET` to Sorted Set

### Full Details:

- Browser:
  - Changed the format of TTL in the list of keys
- CLI:
  - Fixed a bug with `FT.CREATE` command that rendered the window blank
- Workbench:
  - Fixed a bug to avoid executing the Redis command one more time when the view of results is changed
  - Added a new information message when there are no results to display
  - Added indications of commands (currently, not clickable) in Editor area to point out the lines where commands start
  - Added new hints in Editor to display the list of command arguments with the following keyboard shortcuts:
    - Ctrl+Shift+Space for Windows and Linux
    - ⌘ ⇧ Space for Mac
  - Added support for remembering the state (expanded or collapsed) for left side panel in Workbench
  - Reworked navigation for the built-in guides
  - Changed icons for default and custom plugins
- Command Helper:
  - Changed titles of command groups to make them consistent with redis.io
- Help Center:
  - Added a page with supported keyboard shortcuts
- Core:
  - Reworked logic to open CLI and Command Helper, added an option to open Command Helper without a need to open CLI
  - Changed fonts and colors across the application to enhance readability
  - Renamed `ZSET` to Sorted Set
  - Added description of RedisGears and RedisBloom commands to hints in CLI, Command Helper, and Workbench
  - Added support for automatic updates to the list of commands and their description in CLI, Command Helper, and Workbench

## 2.0.2 (November 2021)

This is the public preview release of RedisInsight 2.0 (v2.0.2).

RedisInsight 2.0 is a complete product rewrite based on a new tech stack. This version contains a number of must-have and most-used capabilities from previous releases, plus a number of differentiators and delights.

RedisInsight-preview 2.0 can be installed along with the current GA (1.11) version of RedisInsight with no issues.

### Headlines:

- Developed using a new tech stack based on Electron, Elastic UI, and Monaco Editor
- Introducing Workbench - advanced command line interface with intelligent command auto-complete and complex data visualizations
- Ability to write and render your own data visualizations within Workbench
- Built-in click-through Redis guides available
- Support for Light and Dark themes
- Enhanced user experience with Browser

### Full Details:

- Core:
  - Enhanced user experience with the list of databases:
    - View, sort and edit databases added
    - Multiple deletion of databases
  - Ability to connect to Redis Standalone, Redis Cluster and Redis Sentinel
  - Auto discovery of databases managed by Redis Enterprise, Redis Cloud (Flexible), and Redis Sentinel
  - Support for Redis OSS Cluster API
  - Support for TLS connection
  - Works with Microsoft Azure (official support upcoming)
- Workbench:
  - Advanced command-line interface that lets you run commands against your Redis server 
  - Workbench editor allows comments, multi-line formatting and multi-command execution
  - Intelligent Redis command auto-complete and syntax highlighting with support for [RediSearch](https://oss.redis.com/redisearch/), [RedisJSON](https://oss.redis.com/redisjson/), [RedisGraph](https://oss.redis.com/redisgraph/), [RedisTimeSeries](https://oss.redis.com/redistimeseries/), [RedisGears](https://oss.redis.com/redisgears/), [RedisAI](https://oss.redis.com/redisai/), [RedisBloom](https://oss.redis.com/redisbloom/)
  - Allows rendering custom data visualization per Redis command using externally developed plugins
- Browser:
  - Browse, filter and visualize key-value Redis data structures
    - Visual cues per data type
    - Quick view of size and ttl in the main browser view
    - Ability to filter by pattern and/or data type
    - Ability to change the number of keys to scan through during filtering
  - CRUD support for Lists, Hashes, Strings, Sets, Sorted Sets
    - Search within the data structure (except for Strings)
  - CRUD support for [RedisJSON](https://oss.redis.com/redisjson/)
- Database overview:
  - A number of metrics always on display within the database workspace
    - Metrics updated every 5 second
    - CPU, number of keys, commands/sec, network input, network output, total memory, number of connected clients
  - Enabled modules per Redis server listed
- CLI:
  - Command-line interface with enhanced type-ahead command help
  - Embedded command helper where you can filter and search for Redis commands
- RediSearch:
  - Tabular visualizations within Workbench of [RediSearch](https://oss.redis.com/redisearch/) index queries and aggregations (support for FT.INFO, FT.SEARCH and FT.AGGREGATE)
- Custom plugins:
  - Ability to build your own visualization plugins to be rendered within Workbench
  - [Documentation](https://github.com/redisinsight/redisinsight) on how to develop custom plugins and a reference example are provided
- Built-in guides:
  - Built-in click-through guides for Redis capabilities
  - Added a guide on Document Capabilities within Redis
- User interface (UI):
  - Light/dark themes available
  - Colour palette adjusted to the highest level of [Web content accessibility guidelines](https://www.w3.org/WAI/standards-guidelines/wcag/)
- Data encryption:
  - Optional ability to encrypt sensitive data such as connection certificates and passwords
