content/rc/rc-quickstart.md, before:

---
Title: Redis Cloud Quick Start
description:
weight: 10
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
linktitle: "Quick Start"
aliases: /rv/quick-setup/
         /rc/quick-setup-redis-cloud/
         /rc/quick-setup/
---

If you're new to Redis Enterprise Cloud, this quick start helps you get up and running.  

You'll learn how to:

1.  Create a free subscription

2.  Create a database

3.  Connect to your database

If you already have a subscription, see [Manage subscriptions]({{< relref "/rc/subscriptions/" >}}) and [Manage databases]({{< relref "/rc/databases/" >}}).

## Create a subscription

To create a new free subscription:

1. Sign in to the Redis Cloud admin portal.  (Create an acoount if you don't already have one.)

2. From the admin console menu, choose **Subscriptions**.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/subscription-menu-select.png" alt="The Subscriptions command from the admin console menu." >}}{{< /image >}}



3.  Select the **Add Subscription** button (![Add button](/images/rs/icon_add.png#no-click "Add Subscription")).

    {{<image filename="images/rc/subscription-list-empty.png" alt="The Subscription list when you have no subscriptions." >}}{{< /image >}}

4.  Choose a **Cloud Provider** and a **Region**.

    (You can ignore the **High-Availability** options for now; these are available in paid tiers only.)

5.  In the **Fixed Size** panel, locate the **Dataset Size** list and then choose **30MB**.

    Free plans are a tier of Fixed plans; this provides an easy upgrade path when you need it.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/subscription-create-free.png" width="75%" alt="Create a free subscription. " >}}{{< /image >}}

6.  Enter a descriptive **Subscription Name** and then select **Create**.

If this is your first subscription, you'll be taken directly to the **Create Database** screen.

## Create a database

Next, we create a database.

1.  If you aren't already at the Databases screen, sign into the Redis Cloud admin console, select **Databases** from the menu, and then select the ![Add button](/images/rs/icon_add.png#no-click "Add") button.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/fixed-sub-create-database-free.png" width="75%" alt="Create a free subscription. " >}}{{< /image >}}

2.  Enter a descriptive **Database Name**.  

    - You have 40 characters  
    - You can use letters, numbers, or a hyphen  
    - The name must start with a letter and end with either a letter or a number
    - Spaces are not allowed

3.  For this exercise, leave the remaining options at their default values.  (To learn about them, see [Create a fixed subscription]({{< relref "/rc/subscriptions/create-fixed-subscription.md" >}}).)

4.  Locate the **Activate** button near the bottom of the page and then select it.

5.  You're taken to the Configuration tab of the View Database screen.  In the upper corner, you'll see an orange box containing a rotating circle.  This is the Pending status indicator and it means your database is still being created.

    Admin console operations are asychronous; they operate in the background.  You can continue to use the admin console for other tasks, but your new database isn't available.  When the icon changes to show a green box containing a checkmark, your database is ready to use.

## Connect to a database

At this point, you're at the View Database screen for your new database.  

To connect to your database, you need the following info:

- The public endpoint for your database
- The port number
- The database password

These are available in the **Configuration** details of the **View Database** screen:

- The **Endpoint** setting shows the URI for your database and the port number

- The **Access Control & Security** setting shows a masked **Default Password**.  Use **Password** button to show or hide the password.  

Once you have the connection details, you can connect in a variety of ways, including:

- Using the `redis-cli` utility 

- Using a [connection client](https://redis.io/clients) for your preferred programming language

Here's an example of each.

### Using redic-cli (via Docker){#using-rediscli}

The `redis-cli` utility is installed when you install Redis.  

Docker provides a covenient way to run `redis-cli` without the full installation experience.

When you run the `redis` Docker image, you can open a bash shell instance and run `redis-cli` from the container.

1.  To begin, pull the `redis` docker image and run it with default options:

    ``` sh
    % docker pull redis
    % docker run -d --name redis1 redis
    % docker exec -it redis1 bash
    ```

2.  This gives you a bash prompt running within your Docker image.  From here, you can connect to your database:

    ``` sh
    # redis-cli -h <endpoint> -p <port> -a <password>
    xxx:yyy> 
    ```

    Replace `<endpoint>`, `<port>`, and `<password>` with the details copied from the **View Database** screen.

3.  You should now be connectde to your database and can perform basic Redis commands:

    ``` sh
    xxx:yyy> ping
    PONG
    xxx:yyy> set hello world
    OK
    xxx:yyy> get hello
    "world"
    ```

### Programming language (Python)

Different programming languages use different clients to interact with Redis databases.

Here's how to connect to your database using a client for Python.

1.  If you don't already have the client installed:

    ```sh
    sudo pip install redis-client
    ```

2.  The specific syntax vries according to the client:

    ```python
    import redis-client
    r = redis.Redis(host='<endpoint>', port=<port>, password='<password>')
    r.set('hello', 'world')
    print(r.get('hello'))
    ```
    
3.  Now, run the code:

    ```sh
    $ python example_redis.py
    bar
    ```



## More info

- [Manage Databases]({{< relref "/rs/databases/_index.md" >}})
- [Data Persistence with Redis Cloud]({{< relref "rc/concepts/data-persistence.md" >}})
- [Secure Your Redis Cloud Database]({{< relref "/rc/administration/security/_index.md" >}})
- [Back-up Flexible databases]({{< relref "/rc/databases/back-up-data.md" >}})
- [Monitor Redis Cloud Performance]({{< relref "/rc/databases/monitor-performance.md" >}}).

Commit message:

RS v6.0.20 release notes (#1316)
* Follow-up to PR #1231; fixing assorted minor issues  (#1311)

* First set of quick fixes.

* More edits and updates, mainly to redirects.

* Updating python library to be more current.

* Updating backup article aliases (#1315)

* First set of quick fixes.

* More edits and updates, mainly to redirects.

* Updating python library to be more current.

* Updating aliases

* Initial draft for release notes

content/rc/rc-quickstart.md, after:

---
Title: Redis Cloud Quick Start
description:
weight: 10
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
linktitle: "Quick Start"
aliases: /rv/quick-setup/
         /rc/quick-setup-redis-cloud/
         /rc/quick-setup/
---

If you're new to Redis Enterprise Cloud, this quick start helps you get up and running.  

You'll learn how to:

1.  Create a free subscription

2.  Create a database

3.  Connect to your database

If you already have a subscription, see [Manage subscriptions]({{< relref "/rc/subscriptions/" >}}) and [Manage databases]({{< relref "/rc/databases/" >}}).

## Create a subscription

To create a new free subscription:

1. Sign in to the Redis Cloud admin portal.  (Create an acoount if you don't already have one.)

2. From the admin console menu, choose **Subscriptions**.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/subscription-menu-select.png" alt="The Subscriptions command from the admin console menu." >}}{{< /image >}}



3.  Select the **Add Subscription** button (![Add button](/images/rs/icon_add.png#no-click "Add Subscription")).

    {{<image filename="images/rc/subscription-list-empty.png" alt="The Subscription list when you have no subscriptions." >}}{{< /image >}}

4.  Choose a **Cloud Provider** and a **Region**.

    (You can ignore the **High-Availability** options for now; these are available in paid tiers only.)

5.  In the **Fixed Size** panel, locate the **Dataset Size** list and then choose **30MB**.

    Free plans are a tier of Fixed plans; this provides an easy upgrade path when you need it.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/subscription-create-free.png" width="75%" alt="Create a free subscription. " >}}{{< /image >}}

6.  Enter a descriptive **Subscription Name** and then select **Create**.

If this is your first subscription, you'll be taken directly to the **Create Database** screen.

## Create a database

Next, we create a database.

1.  If you aren't already at the Databases screen, sign into the Redis Cloud admin console, select **Databases** from the menu, and then select the ![Add button](/images/rs/icon_add.png#no-click "Add") button.

    {{<image filename="images/rc/fixed-sub-create-database-free.png" width="75%" alt="Create a free subscription. " >}}{{< /image >}}

2.  Enter a descriptive **Database Name**.  

    - You have 40 characters  
    - You can use letters, numbers, or a hyphen  
    - The name must start with a letter and end with either a letter or a number
    - Spaces are not allowed

3.  For this exercise, leave the remaining options at their default values.  (To learn about them, see [Create a fixed subscription]({{< relref "/rc/subscriptions/create-fixed-subscription.md" >}}).)

4.  Locate the **Activate** button near the bottom of the page and then select it.

5.  You're taken to the **Configuration** tab of the **View Database** screen.  In the upper corner, you'll see an orange box containing a rotating circle.  This is the Pending status indicator and it means your database is still being created.

    ![Pending icon](/images/rc/icon-pending.png#no-click "Pending icon") &nbsp; ![Active icon](/images/rc/icon-active.png#no-click "Active icon")

    Admin console operations are asychronous; they operate [in the background]({{< relref "/rc/api/concepts/provisioning-lifecycle.md" >}}).  You can continue to use the admin console for other tasks, but your new database isn't available.  When the icon changes to show a green box containing a checkmark, your database is ready to use.

## Connect to a database

At this point, you're at the **View Database** screen for your new database.  

To connect to your database, you need the following info:

- The public endpoint for your database
- The port number
- The database password

These are available in the **Configuration** details of the **View Database** screen:

- The **Endpoint** setting shows the URI for your database and the port number

- The **Access Control & Security** setting shows a masked **Default Password**.  Use **Password** button to show or hide the password.  

Once you have the connection details, you can connect in a variety of ways, including:

- Using the `redis-cli` utility 

- Using a [connection client](https://redis.io/clients) for your preferred programming language

Here's an example of each.

### Using redis-cli (via Docker){#using-rediscli}

The `redis-cli` utility is installed when you install Redis.  It provides a command-line interface that lets you work with your database using core [Redis commands](https://redis.io/commands).

Docker provides a covenient way to run `redis-cli` without the full installation experience.

When you run the `redis` Docker image, you can open a bash shell instance and run `redis-cli` from the container.

1.  To begin, pull the `redis` docker image and run it with default options:

    ``` sh
    % docker pull redis
    % docker run -d --name redis1 redis
    % docker exec -it redis1 bash
    ```

2.  This gives you a bash prompt running within your Docker image.  From here, you can connect to your database:

    ``` sh
    # redis-cli -h <endpoint> -p <port> -a <password>
    xxx:yyy> 
    ```

    Replace `<endpoint>`, `<port>`, and `<password>` with the details copied earlier from the **View Database** screen.

3.  You should now be connectded to your database and can perform basic Redis commands:

    ``` sh
    xxx:yyy> ping
    PONG
    xxx:yyy> set hello world
    OK
    xxx:yyy> get hello
    "world"
    ```

### Programming language (Python)

Different programming languages use different clients to interact with Redis databases.

Here's how to connect to your database using the `redis-py` library for Python.

1.  If you don't already have the client installed:

    ```sh
    sudo pip install redis-py
    ```

2.  The specific syntax vries according to the client:

    ```python
    import redis
    r = redis.Redis(host='<endpoint>', port=<port>, 
                    password='<password>')
    r.set('hello', 'world')
    print(r.get('hello'))
    ```
    
3.  Now, run the code:

    ```sh
    $ python example_redis.py
    bar
    ```



## More info

- [Manage Databases]({{< relref "/rc/databases/_index.md" >}})
- [Data Persistence with Redis Cloud]({{< relref "rc/concepts/data-persistence.md" >}})
- [Secure Your Redis Cloud Database]({{< relref "/rc/administration/security/_index.md" >}})
- [Back-up Flexible databases]({{< relref "/rc/databases/back-up-data.md" >}})
- [Monitor Redis Cloud Performance]({{< relref "/rc/databases/monitor-performance.md" >}}).
