---
Title: Statistics
linkTitle: statistics
description: An object that contains metrics for clusters, databases, nodes, or shards
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
---

## Statistics overview

Clusters, databases, nodes, and shards collect various statistics at regular time intervals. You can view the statistics for these objects via `GET stats` requests to their respective endpoints:
- [Cluster stats]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/cluster/stats">}})
- [Database stats]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/bdbs/stats">}})
- [Node stats]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/nodes/stats">}})
- [Shard stats]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/requests/shards-stats">}})

### Response object

Statistics returned from API requests always contain the following fields:
- `interval`: a string that represents the statistics time interval. Valid values include: 
    - 1sec
    - 10sec
    - 5min
    - 15min
    - 1hour
    - 12hour
    - 1week
- `stime`: a timestamp that represents the beginning of the interval, in the format "2015-05-27T12:00:00Z"
- `etime`: a timestamp that represents the end of the interval, in the format "2015-05-27T12:00:00Z"

The statistics returned by the API also contain a set of fields that represent the values of different metrics for an object during the specified time interval.

More details about the metrics relevant to each object:
- [Cluster metrics]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/statistics/cluster-metrics">}})
- [DB metrics]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/statistics/db-metrics">}})
- [Node metrics]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/statistics/node-metrics">}})
- [Shard metrics]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/statistics/shard-metrics">}})

{{<note>}}
Some displayed statistics are for internal use only. They are not documented and should be ignored.
{{</note>}}

{{<note>}}
Certain statistics will only appear in API responses when they are relevant.
{{</note>}}

### Optional URL parameters

There are several optional URL parameters you can pass to the various `GET stats` requests in order to filter the returned statistics.

- `stime`: limit the start of the time range of the returned statistics
- `etime`: limit the end of the time range of the returned statistics
- `metrics`: only return the statistics for the specified metrics (comma-separated list)

## Maximum number of samples per interval

The system retains a maximum number of most recent samples for each interval.

| Interval | Max samples |
|----------|-------------|
| 1sec     | 10 |
| 10sec    | 30 |
| 5min     | 12 |
| 15min    | 96 |
| 1hour    | 168 |
| 12hour   | 62 |
| 1week    | 53 |

The actual number of samples returned by a `GET stats` request depends on how many samples are available and any filters applied by the optional URL parameters. For example, newly created objects (clusters, nodes, databases, or shards) or a narrow time filter range will return fewer samples.

{{<note>}}
To reduce load generated by stats collection, relatively inactive databases or shards (less than 5 ops/sec) do not collect 1sec stats at one second intervals. Instead, they collect 1sec stats every 2-5 seconds but still retain the same maximum number of samples.
{{</note>}}
