---
Title: Authentication and Authorization
description:
weight: 60
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC Pro"]
---

## Introduction to API Keys

All API operations require authentication using a set of 2 API Keys: 

| Key name | HTTP Header name | Description | 
|---|---|---|
| Account Key  | `x-api-key` | Account level key assigned to all users in the Redis Labs account | 
| Secret Key  | `x-api-secret-key` | Personal key associated with a specific user | 

### Account key

The account key is used to identify a specific Redis Labs account on which an API request will be performed. While a Redis Labs user may belong to one or more accounts, any API operation must be performed within the scope of a specific account.

For details on how to create and access the account key, see [Enable your Account to use API]({{< relref "/rv/api/how-to/enable-your-account-to-use-api" >}})

{{%/* note */%}}Account key should be regarded as an account level secret, and should not be shared with persons who are not authorized members to the account.{{%/* /note */%}}

The account key is generated once per account, and cannot be modified or removed after it is generated. If you wish to make any modifications to the account key (i.e. delete or generate a new account key) please contact Redis Labs support.

### Secret key

The secret key is a personal key, associated with a specific user. The secrey key should be treated as a personal secret, to be used only by that user (or tasks performed under that user's supervision and resposibility).

A secret key can only be generated for a user with the role of **owner**. Other roles (such as member or viewer) cannot have secret API keys generated by them or for them. 

A user can generate multiple secret keys for persoanl use or for other users defined as owners within the same account.

When generating a secret key, the secret value of the key is displayed for the first and only time.


## Authentication using API Keys

The account and secret API keys are used to authenticate every API operation request. They must be added as HTTP request headers to each request.

For an example of how to define an HTTP request with the API keys added as HTTP headers, see [Using the cURL HTTP client]({{< relref "/rv/api/how-to/using-curl#using-the-curl-http-client" >}})


## Authorization using the API keys

When sending an API operation request, you must make sure the following requirements are met in order to pass the authorization checks:

1. Both the account and secret keys are valid and properly defined in the HTTP request headers
1. The secret key is associated with the same account as the account key
1. If source IP limitations is defined for the specific secret key, the API request must originate from an IP address that is within the allowed source IP range (see [Manage API Keys - Add a new allowed subnet]({{< relref "/rv/api/how-to/manage-api-keys#add-a-new-allowed-subnet" >}}) )

## Additional information

* [Create API Keys for your team]({{< relref "/rv/api/how-to/create-api-keys-for-your-team" >}})
* [Manage API Keys]({{< relref "/rv/api/how-to/manage-api-keys" >}})
* [Using the API]({{< relref "/rv/api/how-to/using-curl" >}})
