content/kubernetes/re-databases/create-aa-database.md, before:

---

Title: Create Active-Active databases on Kubernetes
linkTitle: Create Active-Active databases
description: This section how to set up an Active-Active Redis Enterprise database on Kubernetes using the Redis Enterprise Software operator.  
weight: 50
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [ 
    /platforms/kubernetes/redb/create-aa-database/,
    /platforms/kubernetes/redb/create-aa-database.md,
]
---
On Kubernetes, Redis Enterprise [Active-Active]({{<relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/active-active.md">}}) databases provide read and write access to the same dataset from different Kubernetes clusters. For more general information about Active-Active, see the [Redis Enterprise Software docs]({{<relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/active-active.md">}}).

## Prerequisites

Before creating Active-Active databases, you'll need the following:

- Two or more working Kubernetes clusters that have:
  - Routing for external access with an [ingress controller]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/set-up-ingress-controller.md">}}) or routes (for OpenShift only)
  - A working [Redis Enterprise cluster (REC)]({{<relref "/kubernetes/reference/cluster-options.md">}}) with a unique name
  - Enough memory resources available for the database (see [hardware requirements]({{<relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/hardware-requirements.md">}}))

## Document required parameters

- **Database name** `<db-name>`:
  - Description: Combined with ingress suffix to create the Active-Active database hostname
  - Format: string
  - Example value: `myaadb`
  - How you get it: you choose

You'll need the following information for each participating Redis Enterprise cluster (REC):

- **REC hostname** `<rec-hostname>`:
  - Description: Hostname used to identify your Redis Enterprise cluster in the `crdb-cli` command
  - Format: `<rec-name>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local`
  - Example value: `rec01.ns01.svc.cluster.local`
  - How to get it: List all your Redis Enterprise clusters
      ```bash
      kubectl get rec --all-namespaces
      ```
- **API hostname** `<api-hostname>`:
  - Description: Hostname used to access the Redis Enterprise cluster API from outside the K8s cluster
  - Format: string
  - Example value: `api.abc.cde.redisdemo.com`
  - How to get it: you choose
- **Ingress suffix** `<ingress-suffix>`:
  - Description: Combined with database name to create the Active-Active database hostname
  - Format: string
  - Example value: `-fgh.ijk.redisdemo.com`
  - How to get it: you choose
- **REC admin credentials** `<username> <password>`:
  - Description: Admin username and password for the REC stored in a secret
  - Format: string
  - Example value: username: `user@redisdemo.com`, password: `something`
  - How to get them:
    ```bash
    kubectl get secret <rec-name> \
      -o jsonpath='{.data.username}' | base64 --decode
    kubectl get secret <rec-name> \
      -o jsonpath='{.data.password}' | base64 --decode
    ```
- **Replication hostname** `<replication-hostname>`:
  - Description: Hostname used inside the ingress for the database
  - Format: `<db-name><ingress-suffix>`
  - Example value: `myaadb-fgh.ijk.redisdemo.com`
  - How to get it: Combine `<db-name>` and `<ingress-suffix`> values you documented above. 
- **Replication endpoint** `<replication-endpoint>`:
  - Description: Endpoint used externally to contact the database
  - Format: `<db-name><ingress-suffix>:443`
  - Example value: `myaadb-fgh.ijk.redisdemo.com:443`
  - How to get it:`<replication-hostname>` documented above followed by "`:443`"

## Add `activeActive` section to the REC resource file

From inside your K8s cluster, edit your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) resource to add the following to the `spec` section. Do this for each participating cluster.

 The operator uses the API URL (`apiIngressUrl`) to create an ingress to the Redis Enterprise cluster's API; this only happens once per cluster. Every time a new Active-Active database instance is created on this cluster, the operator creates a new ingress route to the database with the ingress suffix (`dbIngressSuffix`). The hostname for each new database will be in the format `<db-name><ingress-suffix>`.

### Using ingress controller

1. If your cluster uses an [ingress controller]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/set-up-ingress-controller.md">}}), add the following to the `spec` section of your REC resource file.

    ```yaml
    activeActive:
      apiIngressUrl: <api-hostname>
      dbIngressSuffix: <ingress-suffix>
        ingressAnnotations:
        kubernetes.io/ingress.class: <nginx | haproxy>
        <nginx | haproxy>.ingress.kubernetes.io/backend-protocol: HTTPS
        <nginx | haproxy>.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-passthrough: "true"  
      method: ingress
    ```

1. After the changes are saved and applied, you can verify a new ingress was created for the API.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get ingress
    NAME   HOSTS                            ADDRESS                                 PORTS   AGE
    rec01  api.abc.cde.redisdemo.com  225161f845b278-111450635.us.cloud.com   80      24h
    ```

1. Verify you can access the API from outside the K8s cluster.

    ```bash
   curl -k -L -i -u <username>:<password> https://<api-hostname>/v1/
    ```

  If the API call fails, create a DNS alias that resolves your API hostname (`<api-hostname>`) to the IP address for the ingress controller's LoadBalancer.

### Using OpenShift routes

1. Make sure your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) has a different name (`<rec-name.namespace>`) than any other participating clusters. If not, you'll need to manually rename the REC or move it to a different namespace. After changing the REC name or namespace, reapply [scc.yaml](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/openshift/scc.yaml) to the namespace to reestablish security privileges.
    ```
    oc apply -f scc.yaml
    oc adm policy add-scc-to-group redis-enterprise-scc  system:serviceaccounts:<namespace>
    ```

1. If your cluster uses OpenShift routes, add the following to the `spec` section of your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) resource file.

      ```yaml
      activeActive:
        apiIngressUrl: <api-hostname>
        dbIngressSuffix: <ingress-suffix>
        method: openShiftRoute
      ```

    For OpenShift, your ingress suffix should include the domain generated by OpenShift for your routes. This is listed in your cluster ingress's `spec.domain` field. It's typically in the format `apps.<openshift-name>.<domain>.com`.

1. After the changes are saved and applied, you can see that a new route was created for the API.

    ```bash
    $ oc get route
    NAME    HOST/PORT                       PATH    SERVICES  PORT  TERMINATION   WILDCARD
    rec01   api-openshift.apps.abc.redisdemo.com rec01   api             passthrough   None
    ```

1. Verify you can access the API from outside the K8s cluster.

    ```bash
   curl -k -L -i -u <username>:<password> https://<api-hostname>/v1/
    ```

## Create an Active-Active database with `crdb-cli`

The `crdb-cli` command can be run from any Redis Enterprise pod hosted on any participating K8s cluster. You'll need the values for the [required parameters]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/create-aa-database#document-required-parameters" >}}) for each Redis Enterprise cluster.

```bash
crdb-cli crdb create 
  --name <db-name> \
  --memory-size <mem-size> \
  --encryption yes \
  --instance fqdn=<rec-hostname-01>,url=<api-hostname-01>,username=<username-01>,password=<password-01>,replication_endpoint=<replication-endpoint-01>,replication_tls-sni=<replication-hostname-01> \
  --instance fqdn=<rec-hostname-02>,url=<api-hostname-02>,username=<username-02>,password=<password-02>,replication_endpoint=<replication-endpoint-02>,replication_tls-sni=<replication-hostname-02>
```

See the [`crdb-cli` reference]({{<relref "/rs/references/crdb-cli-reference.md">}}) for more options.

## Test your database

The easiest way to test your Active-Active database is to set a key value pair in one database, and retrieve it from the other. 

You can connect to your databases with the instructions in [Manage databases]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/db-controller.md#connect-to-a-database">}}). Set a test key with `SET foo bar` in the first database. If your Active-Active deployment is working properly, when connected to your second database, `GET foo` should output `bar`.

Commit message:

Update create-aa-database.md (#1597)
add database name requirements

content/kubernetes/re-databases/create-aa-database.md, after:

---

Title: Create Active-Active databases on Kubernetes
linkTitle: Create Active-Active databases
description: This section how to set up an Active-Active Redis Enterprise database on Kubernetes using the Redis Enterprise Software operator.  
weight: 50
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [ 
    /platforms/kubernetes/redb/create-aa-database/,
    /platforms/kubernetes/redb/create-aa-database.md,
]
---
On Kubernetes, Redis Enterprise [Active-Active]({{<relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/active-active.md">}}) databases provide read and write access to the same dataset from different Kubernetes clusters. For more general information about Active-Active, see the [Redis Enterprise Software docs]({{<relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/active-active.md">}}).

## Prerequisites

Before creating Active-Active databases, you'll need the following:

- Two or more working Kubernetes clusters that have:
  - Routing for external access with an [ingress controller]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/set-up-ingress-controller.md">}}) or routes (for OpenShift only)
  - A working [Redis Enterprise cluster (REC)]({{<relref "/kubernetes/reference/cluster-options.md">}}) with a unique name
  - Enough memory resources available for the database (see [hardware requirements]({{<relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/hardware-requirements.md">}}))

## Document required parameters

- **Database name** `<db-name>`:
  - Description: Combined with ingress suffix to create the Active-Active database hostname
  - Format: string
  - Example value: `myaadb`
  - How you get it: you choose
  - The database name requirements are:
        Maximum of 63 characters
        Only letter, number or hyphen (-) characters
        Starts with a letter; ends with a letter or digit.
        Note: The database name is not case-sensitive

You'll need the following information for each participating Redis Enterprise cluster (REC):

- **REC hostname** `<rec-hostname>`:
  - Description: Hostname used to identify your Redis Enterprise cluster in the `crdb-cli` command
  - Format: `<rec-name>.<namespace>.svc.cluster.local`
  - Example value: `rec01.ns01.svc.cluster.local`
  - How to get it: List all your Redis Enterprise clusters
      ```bash
      kubectl get rec --all-namespaces
      ```
- **API hostname** `<api-hostname>`:
  - Description: Hostname used to access the Redis Enterprise cluster API from outside the K8s cluster
  - Format: string
  - Example value: `api.abc.cde.redisdemo.com`
  - How to get it: you choose
- **Ingress suffix** `<ingress-suffix>`:
  - Description: Combined with database name to create the Active-Active database hostname
  - Format: string
  - Example value: `-fgh.ijk.redisdemo.com`
  - How to get it: you choose
- **REC admin credentials** `<username> <password>`:
  - Description: Admin username and password for the REC stored in a secret
  - Format: string
  - Example value: username: `user@redisdemo.com`, password: `something`
  - How to get them:
    ```bash
    kubectl get secret <rec-name> \
      -o jsonpath='{.data.username}' | base64 --decode
    kubectl get secret <rec-name> \
      -o jsonpath='{.data.password}' | base64 --decode
    ```
- **Replication hostname** `<replication-hostname>`:
  - Description: Hostname used inside the ingress for the database
  - Format: `<db-name><ingress-suffix>`
  - Example value: `myaadb-fgh.ijk.redisdemo.com`
  - How to get it: Combine `<db-name>` and `<ingress-suffix`> values you documented above. 
- **Replication endpoint** `<replication-endpoint>`:
  - Description: Endpoint used externally to contact the database
  - Format: `<db-name><ingress-suffix>:443`
  - Example value: `myaadb-fgh.ijk.redisdemo.com:443`
  - How to get it:`<replication-hostname>` documented above followed by "`:443`"

## Add `activeActive` section to the REC resource file

From inside your K8s cluster, edit your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) resource to add the following to the `spec` section. Do this for each participating cluster.

 The operator uses the API URL (`apiIngressUrl`) to create an ingress to the Redis Enterprise cluster's API; this only happens once per cluster. Every time a new Active-Active database instance is created on this cluster, the operator creates a new ingress route to the database with the ingress suffix (`dbIngressSuffix`). The hostname for each new database will be in the format `<db-name><ingress-suffix>`.

### Using ingress controller

1. If your cluster uses an [ingress controller]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/set-up-ingress-controller.md">}}), add the following to the `spec` section of your REC resource file.

    ```yaml
    activeActive:
      apiIngressUrl: <api-hostname>
      dbIngressSuffix: <ingress-suffix>
        ingressAnnotations:
        kubernetes.io/ingress.class: <nginx | haproxy>
        <nginx | haproxy>.ingress.kubernetes.io/backend-protocol: HTTPS
        <nginx | haproxy>.ingress.kubernetes.io/ssl-passthrough: "true"  
      method: ingress
    ```

1. After the changes are saved and applied, you can verify a new ingress was created for the API.

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get ingress
    NAME   HOSTS                            ADDRESS                                 PORTS   AGE
    rec01  api.abc.cde.redisdemo.com  225161f845b278-111450635.us.cloud.com   80      24h
    ```

1. Verify you can access the API from outside the K8s cluster.

    ```bash
   curl -k -L -i -u <username>:<password> https://<api-hostname>/v1/
    ```

  If the API call fails, create a DNS alias that resolves your API hostname (`<api-hostname>`) to the IP address for the ingress controller's LoadBalancer.

### Using OpenShift routes

1. Make sure your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) has a different name (`<rec-name.namespace>`) than any other participating clusters. If not, you'll need to manually rename the REC or move it to a different namespace. After changing the REC name or namespace, reapply [scc.yaml](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/openshift/scc.yaml) to the namespace to reestablish security privileges.
    ```
    oc apply -f scc.yaml
    oc adm policy add-scc-to-group redis-enterprise-scc  system:serviceaccounts:<namespace>
    ```

1. If your cluster uses OpenShift routes, add the following to the `spec` section of your Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) resource file.

      ```yaml
      activeActive:
        apiIngressUrl: <api-hostname>
        dbIngressSuffix: <ingress-suffix>
        method: openShiftRoute
      ```

    For OpenShift, your ingress suffix should include the domain generated by OpenShift for your routes. This is listed in your cluster ingress's `spec.domain` field. It's typically in the format `apps.<openshift-name>.<domain>.com`.

1. After the changes are saved and applied, you can see that a new route was created for the API.

    ```bash
    $ oc get route
    NAME    HOST/PORT                       PATH    SERVICES  PORT  TERMINATION   WILDCARD
    rec01   api-openshift.apps.abc.redisdemo.com rec01   api             passthrough   None
    ```

1. Verify you can access the API from outside the K8s cluster.

    ```bash
   curl -k -L -i -u <username>:<password> https://<api-hostname>/v1/
    ```

## Create an Active-Active database with `crdb-cli`

The `crdb-cli` command can be run from any Redis Enterprise pod hosted on any participating K8s cluster. You'll need the values for the [required parameters]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/create-aa-database#document-required-parameters" >}}) for each Redis Enterprise cluster.

```bash
crdb-cli crdb create 
  --name <db-name> \
  --memory-size <mem-size> \
  --encryption yes \
  --instance fqdn=<rec-hostname-01>,url=<api-hostname-01>,username=<username-01>,password=<password-01>,replication_endpoint=<replication-endpoint-01>,replication_tls-sni=<replication-hostname-01> \
  --instance fqdn=<rec-hostname-02>,url=<api-hostname-02>,username=<username-02>,password=<password-02>,replication_endpoint=<replication-endpoint-02>,replication_tls-sni=<replication-hostname-02>
```

See the [`crdb-cli` reference]({{<relref "/rs/references/crdb-cli-reference.md">}}) for more options.

## Test your database

The easiest way to test your Active-Active database is to set a key value pair in one database, and retrieve it from the other. 

You can connect to your databases with the instructions in [Manage databases]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-databases/db-controller.md#connect-to-a-database">}}). Set a test key with `SET foo bar` in the first database. If your Active-Active deployment is working properly, when connected to your second database, `GET foo` should output `bar`.
