---
Title: Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes Release Notes 6.0.6-23 (August 2020)
description: Release notes for version 6.0.6-23
weight: 76
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
---
The Redis Enterprise K8s 6.0.6-23 release is a *major release* on top of [6.0.6-11](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases/tag/v6.0.6-11) providing support for the latest [Redis Enterprise Software release 6.0.6-39](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/rs/release-notes/rs-6-0-may-2020/) and includes several enhancements (including Rancher support) and bug fixes.

## Overview

This release of the operator provides:

- Support for the Redis Enterprise Software release 6.0.6-39
- Support for Rancher
- Backup options in the database custom resource and controller
- Alert option in the database custom resource and controller
- UBI images
- Various other enhancements and bug fixes

Follow the instructions in ["Upgrading a Redis Enterprise Cluster in Operator-based Architecture"]({{< relref "/platforms/kubernetes/tasks/upgrading-with-operator.md" >}}) to upgrade to this Kubernetes operator release.

## Images

- **Redis Enterprise** - redislabs/redis:6.0.6-39 or redislabs/redis:6.0.6-39.rhel7-openshift
- **Operator** - redislabs/operator:6.0.6-23
- **Services Rigger** - redislabs/k8s-controller:6.0.6-23 or redislabs/services-manager:6.0.6-23 (on the RedHat registry)

## New features

 Red Hat UBI base images (RED29651) - The services rigger and operator images are now based on Red Hat UBI base images. Also, the same images are now used in both OpenShift and non-OpenShift environments.

- Rancher support (RED37918) - The operator is now supported on [Rancher](https://rancher.com/) version ([v2.4.5](https://rancher.com/support-maintenance-terms/all-supported-versions/rancher-v2.4.5/)). Note that since this release of the operator doesn't support K8s 1.18, it requires one of the other supported upstread version in this Rancher release, i.e. 1.15.12, 1.16.13 or 1.17.9.

- Database Replica Of support (RED40160) - Support for [Replica Of](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/rs/administering/active-passive/) was added to the [DB controller](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/redis_enterprise_database_api.md#replicasource).

- Database backup configuration (RED40165) - Support for [backup configuration](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/rs/administering/database-operations/database-backup/) was added to the [DB controller spec](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/redis_enterprise_database_api.md#backupspec).

- Alert configuration (RED40166) - Support for alert configuration was added to the [DB controller spec](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/master/redis_enterprise_database_api.md#dbalertssettings).

- Database TLS configuration (RED41758) - Support for TLS authentication configuration was added to the [DB controller spec](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/blob/0ec741ffb3d621d371b5eec5b0a045ee7364e50e/redis_enterprise_database_api.md#redisenterprisedatabasespec).

- OpenShift 4.4 support (RED41352) - The operator is now supported on [Openshift 4.4](https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.4/welcome/index.html).

- DB controller resources via the OLM (RED41755) - Support for configuration of DB controller resources was added to the OLM (preview channel).

## Important fixes

- Openshift OLM upgrade support was fixed. Also, installing past versions was added through dedicated channels. (RED44130)
- Fixed log_collector failures when pods were not scheduled. (RED45347)
- Fixed wrong handling of the operator environment variables. Specifically, enabling/disabling the database controller now works correctly. (RED45351)

## Known limitations

- CrashLoopBackOff causes cluster recovery to be incomplete  (RED33713) - When a pod status is CrashLoopBackOff and we run the cluster recovery, the process will not complete. The solution is to delete the crashing pods manually and recovery process will continue.

- Long cluster names cause routes to be rejected  (RED25871) - A cluster name longer than 20 characters will result in a rejected route configuration as the host part of the domain name exceeds 63 characters. The workaround is to limit cluster name to 20 characters or less.

- Cluster CR (REC) errors are not reported after invalid updates (RED25542) - A cluster CR specification error is not reported if two or more invalid CR resources are updated in sequence.

- An unreachable cluster has status running (RED32805) - When a cluster is in an unreachable state the state is still running instead of being reported as an error.

- Readiness probe incorrect on failures (RED39300) - STS Readiness probe doesn't mark a node as not ready when rladmin status on the node fails

- Role missing on replica sets (RED39002) - The redis-enterprise-operator role is missing permission on replica sets.

- Private registries are not supported on OpenShift 3.11 (RED38579) - Openshift 3.11 doesn't support dockerhub private registry. This is a known OpenShift issue.

- Internal DNS and K8s DNS may have conflicts (RED37462) - DNS conflicts are possible between the cluster mdns_server and the K8s DNS. This only impacts DNS resolution from within cluster nodes for K8s DNS names.

- 5.4.10 negatively impacts 5.4.6 (RED37233) - K8S-based 5.4.10 clusters seem to negatively impact existing 5.4.6

- Node CPU usage is reported instead of pod CPU usage (RED36884) - In Kubernetes, the node CPU usage we report on is the usage of the K8S worker node hosting the REC pod.

- Clusters must be named "rec" in OLM-based deployments (RED39825) - In OLM-deployed operators, the deployment of the cluster will fail if the name is not "rec". When the operator is deployed via the OLM, the security context constraints (scc) is bound to a specific service account name (i.e., "rec"). The workaround is to name the cluster "rec".

- Updating UI service in Rancher (RED45771) - Updating the UI service type may fail in Rancher. When this happens, delete the service manually and the operator will recreate it correctly.

- Master pod label in Rancher (RED42896) - Master pod is not always labeled in Rancher.

## Deprecation notice

Support for Kubernetes version 1.11 and 1.12 is deprecated (excludes Openshift 3.11, which continues to be supported).

## Compatibility updates

- Added support for Rancher
- Added support for Openshift 4.4
