---
Title: Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes Release Notes 6.0.6-2 (May 2020)
description: Release notes for version 6.0.6-2 (latest)
weight: 80
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
---
Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes 6.0.6-4 is now available. This release includes Redis Enterprise (RS) version [6.0]({{< relref "/rs/release-notes/rs-6-0-may-2020.md" >}}) and introduces new features, improvements, and bug fixes.

## Overview

This release of the operator provides:

 * the latest release version of the operator,
 * support for the Redis Enterprise Software release 6.0,
 * includes the new database and admission controllers,
 * various improvements and bug fixes

Follow the instructions in ["Upgrading a Redis Enterprise Cluster in Operator-based Architecture"]({{< relref "/platforms/kubernetes/upgrading-kubernetes-with-operator.md" >}}) to upgrade to this Kubernetes operator release.

## Images

 * **Redis Enterprise** - redislabs/redis:6.0.6-4 or redislabs/redis:6.0.6-4.rhel7-openshift
 * **Operator** - redislabs/operator:6.0.6-4 or redislabs/operator:6.0.6-4.rhel7
 * **Services Rigger** - redislabs/k8s-controller:6.0.6-4 or redislabs/k8s-controller:6.0.6-4.rhel7

## New features and improvements

### Database controller

A new database controller in the operator provides the ability to create
and manage databases on a Redis Enterprise cluster via a custom resource (RED36516).

### Admission controller

A new admission controller in the operator provides validation of
database custom resources (RED36458).

### Pod tolerations

Support for specifying Redis Enterprise cluster node pod tolerations of node taints
has been added to the cluster CR (see podTolerations) (RED33069).

### Pod annotations

Support for specifying Redis Enterprise cluster node pod annotations has been
added to the cluster CR (see podAnnotations) (RED35613).

### Kubernetes versions

Support for Kubernetes 1.17 was added and versions 1.9 and 1.10 (previously deprecated) are no longer supported (RED41049).

### Improved OLM Experience

The overall user experience and documentation in the OLM (OperatorHub) has been improved (RED37008).

### Resource limits

Resource limits have been added to the recommended operator configuration (RED39572).

## Important fixes

 * Service creation failure causes cluster setup failure (RED37197)
 * UI service update failure (RED37198)
 * Error shown in OLM deployment: "The field status.state is invalid" (RED40278)
 * OLM: StatefulSet not listed as an object owned by the Redis Enterprise Cluster (RED39296)
 * Setting extraLabels in the cluster CR did not label pods on OpenShift (RED39763)
 * log_collector failed to get the pods logs when a namespace wasn't given (RED39292)

## Known limitations

### CrashLoopBackOff pod status and cluster recovery

When a pod status is CrashLoopBackOff and we run the cluster recovery, the process
will not complete. The solution is to delete the crashing pods manually and
recovery process will continue (RED33713).

### CRDB limitation on cluster name length

A cluster name longer than 20 characters will result in a rejected route
configuration as the host part of the domain name exceeds 63 characters. Cluster
names must be limited to 20 characters or less (RED25871).

### CRDB service broker cleanup

The service broker doesn't clean up database service bindings in case of failures.
These bindings must be removed manually (RED25825).

### Service broker deployment error

The service broker deployment results in an error when two types of service naming
schemes are set. Choosing one of the methods will resolve this error (`redis-port`
is the recommended default) (RED25547).

### Cluster spec invalid errors not reported

A cluster CR specification error is not reported if two or more invalid CR resources are
updated in sequence (RED25542).

### Unreachable cluster is not an error

When a cluster is in an unreachable state the state is still running instead of
being reported as an error (RED32805).

### Readiness probe ignores rladmin failure

STS Readiness probe doesn't mark a node as not ready when rladmin status nodes fails (RED39300).

### Mission permission for role

The redis-enterprise-operator role is missing permission on replicasets (RED39002).

### Openshift 3.11 doesn't support DockerHub private registry

Openshift 3.11 doesn't support DockerHub private registry. This is a known OpenShift
issue and not addressable by the Redis Enterprise operator (RED38579)

### Possible DNS conflicts within cluster nodes

DNS conflicts are possible between the cluster mdns_server and the K8s DNS.
This only impacts DNS resolution from within cluster node (RED37462).

### Coexistence of 5.4.10 and 5.4.6 clusters

K8S-based 5.4.10 clusters seem to negatively affect existing 5.4.6 clusters (RED37233).

### CPU utilization is node and not pod

In Kubernetes, the node CPU usage we report on is the usage of the K8S worker node hosting the REC pod (RED-36884).

### Cluster name is limited on OpenShift via OLM

In OLM-deployed operators, the deployment of the cluster will fail if the name
is not "rec". When the operator is deployed via the OLM, the security context constraints (scc)
is bound to a specific service account name (i.e., "rec"). Naming the cluster
"rec" resolves the issue (RED39825).

### Deleting database CRD hangs without cluster

Deleting a Redis Enterprise database custom resource hangs if the referenced
cluster has already been deleted. Deleting the cluster does not automatically
delete the database resources that reference the cluster. The solution is to
delete the database custom resources first before deleting the cluster (41694).
