---
Title: Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes Release Notes 6.0.6-11 (July 2020)
linktitle: 6.0.6-11 (July 2020)
description: Release notes for version 6.0.6-11
weight: 78
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
---

The Redis Enterprise K8s 6.0.6-11 release is a *maintenance release* on top of [6.0.6-6](https://github.com/RedisLabs/redis-enterprise-k8s-docs/releases/tag/v6.0.6-6) providing support for the latest [Redis Enterprise Software release 6.0.6-39](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/rs/release-notes/rs-6-0-may-2020/) and includes several bug fixes.

## Overview

This release of the operator provides:

- Support for the Redis Enterprise Software release 6.0.6-39
- Various bug fixes

Follow the instructions in ["Upgrading a Redis Enterprise Cluster in Operator-based Architecture"]({{< relref "/platforms/kubernetes/tasks/upgrading-with-operator.md" >}}) to upgrade to this Kubernetes operator release.

## Images

- **Redis Enterprise** - redislabs/redis:6.0.6-39 or redislabs/redis:6.0.6-39.rhel7-openshift
- **Operator** - redislabs/operator:6.0.6-11 or redislabs/operator:6.0.6-11.rhel7
- **Services Rigger** - redislabs/k8s-controller:6.0.6-11 or redislabs/k8s-controller:6.0.6-11.rhel7

## Important fixes

- The upgrade process may have failed in certain situations (i.e., with CRDB databases). We now ensure that rlutil runs at bootstrap to complete the upgrade process. (RED43635)
- The example and default custom resource for the REC in the OLM now correctly uses 'nodes' (RED43847)
- Fixes for security vulnerabilities in the server rigger image: upgraded to httpd 2.4.42, Kubernetes Python Client 8.0.1, and removed localhost private key. (RED42495)
- A fix for an internal logging issue that caused errors to incorrectly show up on the operator log when databases are created even though the creation succeeded. (RED43336)

## Known limitations

- CrashLoopBackOff causes cluster recovery to be incomplete  (RED33713) - When a pod status is CrashLoopBackOff and we run the cluster recovery, the process will not complete. The solution is to delete the crashing pods manually and recovery process will continue.

- Long cluster names cause routes to be rejected  (RED25871) - A cluster name longer than 20 characters will result in a rejected route configuration as the host part of the domain name exceeds 63 characters. The workaround is to limit cluster name to 20 characters or less.

- No cleanup of database services on failures (RED25825) - The service broker doesn't clean up database service bindings when there are failures. The workaround is to manually remove service bindings.

- Server broker errors with two service naming schemes  (RED25547) - The service broker deployment results in an error when two types of service naming schemes are set. You must choose one of the methods if both are set - redis-port is the recommended default.

- Cluster CR (REC) errors are not reported after invalid updates (RED25542) - A cluster CR specification error is not reported if two or more invalid CR resources are updated in sequence.

- An unreachable cluster has status running (RED32805) - When a cluster is in an unreachable state the state is still running instead of being reported as an error.

- Readiness probe incorrect on failures (RED39300) - STS Readiness probe doesn't mark a node as not ready when rladmin status on the node fails

- Role missing on replica sets (RED39002) - The redis-enterprise-operator role is missing permission on replica sets.

- Private registries are not supported on OpenShift 3.11 (RED38579) - Openshift 3.11 doesn't support dockerhub private registry. This is a known OpenShift issue.

- Internal DNS and K8s DNS may have conflicts (RED37462) - DNS conflicts are possible between the cluster mdns_server and the K8s DNS. This only impacts DNS resolution from within cluster nodes for K8s DNS names.

- 5.4.10 negatively impacts 5.4.6 (RED37233) - K8S-based 5.4.10 clusters seem to negatively affect existing 5.4.6

- Node CPU usage is reported instead of pod CPU usage (RED36884) - In Kubernetes, the node CPU usage we report on is the usage of the K8S worker node hosting the REC pod.

- Clusters must be named "rec" in OLM-based deployments (RED39825) - In OLM-deployed operators, the deployment of the cluster will fail if the name is not "rec". When the operator is deployed via the OLM, the security context constraints (scc) is bound to a specific service account name (i.e., "rec"). The workaround is to name the cluster "rec".
