---
Title: Redis Enterprise Software Release Notes 5.2 (June 2018)
linkTitle: 5.2 (June 2018)
description:
weight: 91
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: /rs/release-notes/rs-5-2-june-2018/
         /rs/release-notes/rs-5-2-june-2018.md
---
Redis Enterprise Software (RS) 5.2 is now available. Key features
include new data types and casual consistency for active-active (also
known as the Redis CRDT or CRDB Conflict-free Replicated Database), as
well as enhanced security features.

## Overview

If you are upgrading from a previous version, make sure to review the
upgrade instructions before beginning the upgrade process. You can
upgrade to RS 5.2 from RS 4.5 and above. If you have a version older
than 4.5, you should first upgrade to version 5.0 (or at least
4.5).

## New features

### Active-Active Redis (CRDB) supports sorted sets and lists {#activeactive-redis-crdb-supports-sorted-sets-and-lists}

RS 5.2 adds active-active Redis (CRDB) support for Sorted Sets and
Lists. Now all major Redis data types are supported with CRDT, so you
can use Redis Enterprise in an active-active manner for all your Redis
use cases, with seamless conflict resolution. [Click here]({{< relref "/rs/developing/crdbs/_index.md" >}})
for more information about how to develop applications with
geo-replicated CRDBs.

### Causal consistency in Active-Active Redis (CRDB) {#causal-consistency-in-activeactive-redis-crdb}

casual consistency in active-active Redis (CRDB) guarantees that the
order of operations on a specific key will be maintained across all CRDB
instances. For instance, if operations A and B were applied on the same
key, and B was performed after the effect of A was observed by the CRDB
instance that initiated B, then all CRDB instances would observe the
effect of A before observing the effect of B.

This way, any causal relationship between operations on the same key is
also observed and maintained by every replica. Such capability is
important for various applications, e.g. social network status updates
or chat applications (assuring that the chronology of messages doesn't
get mixed up). For more information, [click
here]({{< relref "/rs/databases/active-active/causal-consistency.md" >}}).

### Enhanced security features

- **Admin action audit trail**

Management actions performed with Redis Software are audited in order
to fulfill two major objectives: (1) make sure that system management tasks
are appropriately performed and/or monitored by the Administrator(s),
and (2) facilitate compliance with regulatory standards such as HIPAA,
SOC2, PCI, etc.

In order to fulfill both objectives, audit records contain the
following information: (1) who performed the action, (2) what exactly
was the performed action, (3) when the action was performed, and (4)
whether  the action succeeded.

To get the list of audit records/events, one can use the REST API or
the Log page in the UI; the Log page displays the system and user events
regarding alerts, notifications and
configurations.

- **Ability to disable TLS versions**

Version 5.2 introduces the option to set the minimum TLS version that
can be used for encrypting the various flows. You can do so using the
REST API or the following rladmin commands:

- For the management UI and the REST API:

```sh
rladmin> cluster config min_control_TLS_version [version, e.g. 1.2]
```

- For the data path encryption:

```sh
rladmin> cluster config min_data_TLS_version [version, e.g. 1.2]
```

Note that communications that use older TLS versions will not be
allowed.

- **HTTPS enforcement**

With this feature, you can restrict REST API  access to only those
using HTTPS. In order to do so, use the REST API or the following
rladmin command:

```sh
rladmin> cluster config http_support [disabled | enabled]
```

## Additional capabilities

- Support for Redis version 4.0.9
- Fixes for Redis important security issues related to the Lua
    scripting engine

## Information

- The end-of-service-life (EOSL) for Redis Enterprise Software 4.4.X
    is June 30th, 2018, in accordance with our [published
    policy]({{< relref "/rs/administering/product-lifecycle.md" >}}).
    We recommend that customers running version 4.4 or below
    upgrade to the latest version.

## Important fixes

- RS19755 - Added the ability to enforce HTTPS communication when
    accessing REST API
- RS19571 - Fixed RHEL installation when FIPS mode is
    enabled
- RS19490 - Fixed a failure while upgrading from 4.5 to
    5.0.2
- RS19475 - Added the ability to disable TLS versions for the
    control and data paths
- RS18712 - Fixed a failure in endpoint failover

- RS17208 - Added an option to disable Redis commands via Rest
    API
- RS14973 - Updated NGINX.conf template to turn off exposing the
    server version
- RS11181 - Set file permissions of log files, redis-conf files, rdb
    files and their rotations to "640"

## Known limitations

- After creating Redis Enterprise CRDBs which "Require SSL for CRDB
    communication only," one can set definitions via Rest API to
    activate "Require SSL for All Communication" without providing a
    certificate. In such case, connections to the cluster will be
    blocked.
