---
Title: Redis Enterprise Software Release Notes 5.4.6 (July 2019)
linkTitle: 5.4.6 (July 2019)
description:
weight: 84
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: /rs/release-notes/rs-5-4-6-july-2019/
         /rs/release-notes/rs-5-4-6-july-2019.md
---

[Redis Enterprise Software (RS) 5.4.6](https://redislabs.com/redis-enterprise/software/downloads/#downloads) is now available.
This release includes the latest version of [Redis 5 (5.0.5](https://redis.io/)), bundles the GA release of the new RedisTimeSeries module,
and adds other enhancements and bug fixes.

## Overview

Follow these [instructions]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/upgrading.md" >}}) for upgrading to RS 5.4.6 from RS 5.0 and above.
If you have a version older than 5.0, you must first upgrade to version 5.2 (or at least 5.0).

## New features

### Time series

New GA release of the [RedisTimeSeries](https://redislabs.com/blog/redistimeseries-ga-making-4th-dimension-truly-immersive/) (version v1.0.0) module is bundled in RS 5.4.6.

### Modules versions

Updated versions of GA modules:

- [RedisTimeSeries](https://oss.redislabs.com/redistimeseries/)  - v1.0.0 (new module)
- [RedisBloom](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisbloom/)   -  v2.0.0 (version update)
- [RediSearch](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisearch/)  -  v1.4.11 (version update)
- [RedisGraph](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisgraph/)  -  v1.2.2 (no change)
- [RedisJSON](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisjson/)  -  v1.0.3 (no change)

## Additional capabilities

- [Latest version of Redis 5](https://redis.io/) (5.0.5) was merged into RS 5.4.6.
- If a user subscribes to a channel during recovery of a Active-Active Redis (CRDB) from an Append Only File (AOF), the user receives only the new messages.
    (Fixes known limitation from RS 5.4.4)
- CROSSSLOT behavior now matches Redis OSS behavior for accessing multiple keys in a single command.
    Now, when you use CRC16 hash function (default), you can pass a command for different keys/tags that are mapped to the same slot. (RS23189)
- Cluster upgrade process was improved so that the duration of the cluster upgrade process reduced.

## Information

- End of Life (EOL) for Redis Enterprise Software 5.4, as well as for Redis Modules and previous RS versions,
    can be found [here]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/product-lifecycle.md" >}}).

## Important fixes

- RS28679 - Syncer and peers related statistics for Active-Active Redis (CRDB),
    which are already available with the REST API, are exposed through Prometheus.
- RS28946 - Metrics exporter related minor memory leak fix.
- RS26312 - Ports handling during installation fix.
- RS31703 - Fixed performance issue with MSET command.

## Known limitations

### Upgrade

- [RS 5.4.2]({{< relref "rs/release-notes/legacy-release-notes/rs-5-4-2-april-2019.md" >}}) introduced new Active-Active Redis (CRDB) capabilities
    that improve its compatibility with open source Redis.
    Now the string data-type in Active-Active Redis (CRDB) is implicitly and dynamically typed, just like open source Redis.
    To use the new capabilities on nodes that are upgraded from version RS 5.4.2 or lower,
    you must [upgrade the CRDB protocol]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/upgrading#upgrading-crdbs" >}}).
- Before you upgrade a database with RediSearch Module to Redis 5.0,
    you must [upgrade the RediSearch Module]({{<relref "/modules/install/upgrade-module">}}) to version 1.4.2 or above.
- Node upgrade fails if the SSL certificates were configured in version 5.0.2 or above
    by manually updating the certificates on the disk instead of [updating them through the API](https://docs.redis.com/latest/rs/administering/cluster-operations/updating-certificates).
    For assistance with this issue, [contact Redis support](https://redislabs.com/company/support/).
- We recommend that you test module upgrade commands in a test environment before you upgrade modules in a production environment.
    The module upgrade arguments are not validated during the upgrade process and incorrect arguments can cause unexpected downtime.
- Starting from RS 5.4.2, to preserve the current Redis major.minor version during database upgrade you must use the `keep_redis_version` option instead of `keep_current_version`.

### Cluster API

- The API for removing a node is updated in RS 5.4.2 or higher. The API call must include json data and the "Content-Type: application/json" header. For example:

    ```sh
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -i -k -u user@redislabs.com:passsword https://localhost:9443/v1/nodes/3/actions/remove --data "{}"
    ```

### Redis commands

- The capability of disabling specific Redis commands does not work on commands specific to Redis Modules.
- The CLIENT ID command cannot guarantee incremental IDs between clients that connect to different nodes under multi proxy policies.
- CLIENT UNBLOCK command is not supported in RS 5.4 and above
- Starting from RS 5.4.2 and after upgrading the CRDB, TYPE command for string data-type in CRDBs return "string" (OSS Redis standard).
