---
Title: Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes release notes 6.4.2-5 (April 2023)
linktitle: 6.4.2-5 (April 2023)
description: The Redis Enterprise K8s 6.4.2-5 is a maintenance release for version 6.4.2-4.
weight: 56
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [ 
    /kubernetes/release-notes/6-4-2-releases/6-4-2-5/,
      ]
---
## Overview

This is a maintenance release of Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes 6.4.2-4 that adds supports for Redis Enterprise 6.4.2-61.

New images and fixes are listed below. Refer to [6.2.4-4 (March 2023)]({{<relref "/kubernetes/release-notes/6-4-2-releases/k8s-6-4-2-4.md">}}) for compatibility notes and known limitations.

{{<warning>}} Due to an change in the SCC, on OpenShift clusters running version 6.2.12 or earlier upgrading to version 6.2.18 or later, where `node1` is not the master node, the upgrade might get stuck. You'll see the upgrade is still incomplete after x minutes and and the ServicesRigger log shows an error containing "couldn't update pod."<br/><br/>
This may also effect OpenShift clusters containing two RECs running different versions, if one is running version 6.2.12 or earlier and the other is running 6.2.18 or later. <br/>
<br/>
To prevent this, set node1 as the master node with `rladmin master set 1`. <br/>
<br/>
This is a newly discovered issue and more information will be available soon. If you have already encountered the error and need it fixed immediately, contact Redis support.
{{</warning>}}

## Images

* **Redis Enterprise**: `redislabs/redis:6.4.2-61`
* **Operator**: `redislabs/operator:6.4.2-5`
* **Services Rigger**: `redislabs/k8s-controller:6.4.2-5`

### OpenShift images

* **Redis Enterprise**: `registry.connect.redhat.com/redislabs/redis-enterprise:6.4.2-61.rhel8-openshift`
    (or `redislabs/redis-enterprise:6.4.2-61.rhel7-openshift` if upgrading from RHEL 7)
* **Operator**: `registry.connect.redhat.com/redislabs/redis-enterprise-operator:6.4.2-5`
* **Services Rigger**: `registry.connect.redhat.com/redislabs/services-manager:6.4.2-5`

### OpenShift OLM bundles

* Redis Enterprise operator bundle version: `v6.4.2-5.0`

## Upgrade to 6.4.2-5

This release uses a new `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` resource to replace the `redb-admission` webhook resource. To use the 6.4.2-5 release, delete the old webhook resource and apply the new file. See [upgrade Redis cluster]({{<relref "/kubernetes/re-clusters/upgrade-redis-cluster#reapply-webhook">}}) for instructions.

## Feature enhancements

* Upgraded to support Redis Enterprise 6.4.2-61

## Bug fixes

* Fixed bug that can cause Redis cluster to become unresponsive during a Kubernetes upgrade on clusters with more than 9 REC nodes. (RED-93025)

## Compatibility notes

See [Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes release notes 6.4.2-4 (March 2023)]({{<relref "/kubernetes/release-notes/6-4-2-releases/k8s-6-4-2-4.md">}}).

## Known limitations

See [Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes release notes 6.4.2-4 (March 2023)]({{<relref "/kubernetes/release-notes/6-4-2-releases/k8s-6-4-2-4.md">}}).
