---

title: Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes release notes 6.4.2-8 (July 2023)
linkTitle: 6.4.2-8 (July 2023)
description: The Redis Enterprise K8s 6.4.2-8 release supports Redis Enterprise Software 6.4.2 and contains new features and feature improvements.
weight: 54
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: [ 
    /kubernetes/release-notes/6-4-2-releases/k8s-6-4-2-8/,
      ]
---

## Overview

Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes version 6.4.2-8 is a maintenance release of version 6.2.4-6. It includes critical bug fixes and an updated Redis Enterprise image.

## New in this release 

### Feature enhancements

* New Redis Enterprise software version 6.4.2-94 (RED-105738)

### Bug fixes

* Fixed bad handling of certificate chains in the REC controller (RED-105578)

## Upgrade considerations

Be aware the following changes included in this release affect the upgrade process. Please read carefully before upgrading to 6.4.2-8.

* **ValidatingWebhookConfiguration**

  This release uses a new `ValidatingWebhookConfiguration` resource to replace the `redb-admission` webhook resource. To use releases 6.4.2-4 or later, delete the old webhook resource and apply the new file. See [upgrade Redis cluster]({{<relref "/kubernetes/upgrade/upgrade-redis-cluster#reapply-webhook">}}) for instructions.

* **OpenShift SCC**

  This release includes a new SCC (`redis-enterprise-scc-v2`) that you need to bind to your service account before upgrading. OpenShift clusters running version 6.2.12 or earlier upgrading to version 6.2.18 or later might get stuck if you skip this step. See [upgrade a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC)]({{<relref "/kubernetes/upgrade/upgrade-redis-cluster#before-upgrading">}}) for expand.

## Compatibility

### Deprecated features

* Support for Gesher, the advanced admission control configuration, is deprecated.

### Supported distributions

The following table shows supported distributions at the time of this release. You can also find this list in [Supported Kubernetes distributions]({{< relref "/kubernetes/reference/supported_k8s_distributions" >}}) reflecting the most recent release.

| **Kubernetes version**  | 1.22       | 1.23       | 1.24       | 1.25       | 1.26       | 1.27       |
|:------------------------|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|:----------:|
| Community Kubernetes    |            | deprecated | supported  | supported  | supported  | supported  |
| Amazon EKS              | deprecated | deprecated | supported  | supported  |            |            |
| Azure AKS               |            | deprecated | supported  | supported  | supported  |
| Google GKE              | deprecated | deprecated | supported  | supported  | supported  |            |
| Rancher 2.6             | deprecated | deprecated | supported  |            |            |            |
| Rancher 2.7             |            | deprecated | supported  |            |            |            |
| VMware TKG 1.6          | deprecated | deprecated |            |            |            |            |
| **OpenShift version**   | **4.9**    | **4.10**   | **4.11**   | **4.12**   |            |            |
|                         |            | deprecated | supported  | supported  |            |            |
| **VMware TKGI version** | **1.13**   | **1.14**   | **1.15**   |            |            |            |
|                         | deprecated | deprecated | supported  |            |            |            |

\* Support added in this release

{{<note>}} Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes now uses RKE2 as the default for Rancher distributions. {{</note>}}

### Images

* **Redis Enterprise**: `redislabs/redis:6.4.2-94`
* **Operator**: `redislabs/operator:6.4.2-8`
* **Services Rigger**: `redislabs/k8s-controller:6.4.2-8.`

#### OpenShift images

* **Redis Enterprise**: `registry.connect.redhat.com/redislabs/redis-enterprise:6.4.2-94.rhel8-openshift`
    (or `redislabs/redis-enterprise:6.4.2-94.rhel7-openshift` if upgrading from RHEL 7)
* **Operator**: `registry.connect.redhat.com/redislabs/redis-enterprise-operator:6.4.2-8`
* **Services Rigger**: `registry.connect.redhat.com/redislabs/services-manager:6.4.2-8`

#### OLM bundle

* **Redis Enterprise operator bundle** : `v6.4.2-8`

## Known limitations

* **Air-gapped environments using Gears will get stuck during cluster recovery(RED-112076)** This bug affects Redis Enterprise for Kubernetes versions older than 7.2.4-2.

### Existing limitations

* **RERC resources must have a unique name (RED-96302)** The string "rec-name"/"rec-namespace" must be different from all other participating clusters in teh Active-Active database.

* **Admission is not blocking REAADB with `shardCount` which exceeds license quota (RED-96301)** Fix the problems with the REAADB and reapply.

* **Active-Active setup removal might keep services or routes undeleted (RED-77752)** Delete services or routes manually if you encounter this problem.

* **`autoUpgrade` set to `true` can cause unexpected bdb upgrades when `redisUpgradePolicy` is set to `true` (RED-72351)** Contact support if your deployment is impacted.

* **Following the previous quick start guide version causes issues with creating an REDB due to unrecognized memory field name (RED-69515)** The workaround is to use the newer (current) revision of Deploy Redis Enterprise Software for Kubernetes.

* **PVC size issues when using decimal value in spec (RED-62132)** Make sure you use integer values for the PVC size.

* **REC might report error states on initial startup (RED-61707)** There is no workaround at this time except to ignore the errors.

* **Hashicorp Vault integration - no support for Gesher (RED-55080)** There is no workaround for this issue. Gesher support has been deprecated.

* **REC clusters fail to start on Kubernetes clusters with unsynchronized clocks (RED-47254)** When REC clusters are deployed on Kubernetes clusters without synchronized clocks, the REC cluster does not start correctly. The fix is to use NTP to synchronize the underlying K8s nodes.

* **Deleting an OpenShift project with an REC deployed may hang (RED-47192)** When an REC cluster is deployed in a project (namespace) and has REDB resources, the REDB resources must be deleted first before the REC can be deleted. Therefore, until the REDB resources are deleted, the project deletion will hang. The fix is to delete the REDB resources first and the REC second. Then, you can delete the project.

* **Clusters must be named 'rec' in OLM-based deployments (RED-39825)** In OLM-deployed operators, the deployment of the cluster will fail if the name is not "rec". When the operator is deployed via the OLM, the security context constraints (scc) are bound to a specific service account name (namely, "rec"). The workaround is to name the cluster "rec".

* **Readiness probe incorrect on failures (RED-39300)** STS Readiness probe does not mark a node as "not ready" when running `rladmin status` on node failure.

* **Internal DNS and Kubernetes DNS may have conflicts (RED-37462)** DNS conflicts are possible between the cluster `mdns_server` and the K8s DNS. This only impacts DNS resolution from within cluster nodes for Kubernetes DNS names.

* **Node CPU usage is reported instead of pod CPU usage (RED-36884)** In Kubernetes, the reported node CPU usage is the usage of the Kubernetes worker node hosting the REC pod.

* **An unreachable cluster has status running (RED-32805)** When a cluster is in unreachable state, the state remains `running` instead of triggering an error.

* **Long cluster names cause routes to be rejected  (RED-25871)** A cluster name longer than 20 characters will result in a rejected route configuration because the host part of the domain name exceeds 63 characters. The workaround is to limit the cluster name to 20 characters or fewer.

* **Cluster CR (REC) errors are not reported after invalid updates (RED-25542)** A cluster CR specification error is not reported if two or more invalid CR resources are updated in sequence.