content/rc/security/database-security/tls-ssl.md, before:

---
Title: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
description:
weight: 20
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rc/administration/security/securing-redis-cloud-connections
---

Transport Layer Security (TLS), commonly called "SSL", ensures the privacy of data sent between applications and their Redis databases. TLS is available in Redis Cloud Flexible and Annual subscriptions.
\
## Use TLS with Redis Cloud

TLS is not enabled by default for Redis Cloud databases. To use TLS, you must first enable it.

When you enable TLS, you also need to decide whether to enable client authentication. With client authentication, all clients connecting to your database will be required to present a valid client certificate for the connection to succeed. Although client authentication is not required by Redis Cloud, we do recommend it.

### Enable TLS

Here's how to enable TLS for a Redis Cloud database.

1. From the admin console, navigate to the **View Database** screen for your database.

![View Database](/images/rc/view-db.png#no-click "View Database")

2. Click on the **edit** icon to enter the **Edit Database** screen. ![Add](/images/rc/icon_edit.png#no-click "Edit")

![Edit Database](/images/rc/edit-db.png#no-click "Edit Database")

3. Under the **Access Control & Security** subsection, click the **SSL Client Authentication** slider.

![SSL Client Authentication](/images/rc/ssl-client-auth.png "SSL Client Authentication")

4. Decide whether you want to require client authentication (also known as "mutual authentication"). By
enabling client authentication, only those clients that present a valid certificate will be able to connect. If
you do not want to require client authentication, skip to **step 8**.

5. To require client authentication, select **Enforce client authentication**.

![Enforce Client Authentication](/images/rc/enforce-client-auth.png "SSL Client Authentication")

6. Next, either provide an X.509 certificate containing a public key for your client, or generate one by clicking
**Generate Client Certificate**.

7. If you generate your certificate using the admin console, then a download will begin containing the following
artifacts:
   * `redislabs_user.crt` – the certificate's public key.
   * `redislabs_user_private.key` – the certificate's private key.
   * `redislabs_ca.pem` – the Redis Cloud CA certificate.

8. Click the **Update** button to apply your changes and enable TLS.

![Cancel / Update](/images/rc/cancel-update.png "Cancel / Update")


{{<note>}}
Once you've enabled TLS, all client connections to your database must use TLS. Unencrypted connections
will no longer be permitted.
{{</note>}}

## Connect over TLS

To connect to a Redis Cloud database over TLS, you will need:

* A Redis client that supports TLS
* The Redis Cloud CA certificate

### Certificates

If you don't have the Redis Cloud CA certificate, you can download it again from the admin
console by going to **Settings** and clicking on **Pro CA**.

![Pro CA](/images/rc/pro-ca.png "Pro CA")

In addition, if you're requiring client authentication, then you'll need a public and private client key. See
[Enabling TLS](#enabling-tls) for where to get these files.

### Connect with the Redis CLI

Here's a quick example of how to connect to your TLS-enabled Redis Cloud database using the Redis CLI.

If you're not requiring client authentication, then you only need to provide the host, port, and the the Redis Cloud CA certificate:

```sh
redis-cli -h redis.123.cloud.rlrcp.com -p 16257 --tls
    --cacert redislabs_ca.pem
```

If you've enabled client authentication, then you also need to provide your client's private and public keys:

```sh
redis-cli -h redis.123.cloud.rlrcp.com -p 16257 --tls --cacert redislabs_ca.pem
    --cert redislabs_user.crt --key redislabs_user_private.key
```

Commit message:

Quick copyedit and updated client authorization images.

content/rc/security/database-security/tls-ssl.md, after:

---
Title: Transport Layer Security (TLS)
description:
weight: 20
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rc/administration/security/securing-redis-cloud-connections
---

Transport Layer Security (TLS) uses encryption to secure [network communication](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Transport_Layer_Security)  Redis Cloud Flexible and Annual subscriptions can use TLS to encrypt data communications between applications and Redis databases. 

## Use TLS with Redis Cloud

TLS is not enabled by default.  

When you enable TLS, you also need to decide whether to enable client authentication, which requires that all database clients present a valid client certificate for authentication.

Client authentication is not required by Redis Cloud; however, it is strongly recommended.

### Enable TLS

To enable TLS for a Redis Cloud database.

1. Select the **Databases** command from the admin console menu to open the **View Databases** screen and then select your database from the list.

![View Database](/images/rc/view-db.png#no-click "View Database")

2. Select the **Edit** icon to edit the database. ![Add](/images/rc/icon_edit.png#no-click "Edit")

![Edit Database](/images/rc/edit-db.png#no-click "Edit Database")

3. In the **Access Control & Security** section, enable the **SSL Client Authentication** setting.

![SSL Client Authentication](/images/rc/ssl-client-auth.png "SSL Client Authentication")

4. Decide whether you want to enforce client authentication (also known as "mutual authentication"). By
enabling client authentication, only those clients that present a valid certificate will be able to connect. If you do not want to require client authentication, skip to **step 8**.

5. To require client authentication, select **Enforce client authentication**.

![Enforce Client Authentication](/images/rc/enforce-client-auth.png "SSL Client Authentication")

6. Next, either provide an X.509 certificate containing a public key for your client or use the 
**Generate Client Certificate** button to generate one.

7. If you generate your certificate using the admin console, then a download will begin containing the following artifacts:
   * `redislabs_user.crt` – the certificate's public key.
   * `redislabs_user_private.key` – the certificate's private key.
   * `redislabs_ca.pem` – the Redis Cloud CA certificate.

8. Select the **Update** button to apply your changes and enable TLS.

![Cancel / Update](/images/rc/cancel-update.png "Cancel / Update")


{{<note>}}
Once you've enabled TLS, all client connections to your database must use TLS. Unencrypted connections
will no longer be permitted.
{{</note>}}

## Connect over TLS

To connect to a Redis Cloud database over TLS, you will need:

* A Redis client that supports TLS
* The Redis Cloud client authentication (CA) certificate

### Certificates

If you don't have the Redis Cloud CA certificate, you can download it from the admin
console by going to **Settings** and selecting the **Flexible Plans CA** button.

![Flexible Plans CA button](/images/rc/rc-settings-ca-flexible.png "Flexible Plans CA")

If you're requiring client authentication, you'll also need a public and private client keys. See
[Enabling TLS](#enabling-tls) for detai.

### Connect with the Redis CLI

Here's how to use the Redis command-line interface (CLI) tool to a TLS-enabled Redis Cloud database:

If you're not requiring client authentication, then you need to provide the host, port, and the Redis Cloud CA certificate:

```sh
redis-cli -h redis.123.cloud.rlrcp.com -p 16257 --tls
    --cacert redislabs_ca.pem
```

If you've enabled client authentication, then you also need to provide your client's private and public keys:

```sh
redis-cli -h redis.123.cloud.rlrcp.com -p 16257 --tls --cacert redislabs_ca.pem
    --cert redislabs_user.crt --key redislabs_user_private.key
```

Endpoint and port details are available from the **View Database** details screen.
