---
Title: RediSearch v1.0.9 Release Notes
description: RediSearch v1.0.9 Release Notes
weight: 10009
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Modules"]
---
This is a maintenance release from the 1.0 branch, that does not yet contain the aggregation engine that's already in master. It includes a few small fixes and API additions that were backported from master. 

## Changes

### 1. Hamming Distance Scoring

RediSearch can now sort the search result by the inverse Hamming Distance between document payloads and the query payloads (provided they are both the same length). This can be used as a nearest neighbor search ranking when a feature vector is encoded as a bitmap and the distance metric is Hamming distance. 

### 2. Wildcard queries

It's now possible to search for just `*`, scanning all the documents in the index. This is useful in conjunction with the Hamming Distance scorer.

### 3. Optional deletion of documents in FT.DEL 

Up until now, FT.DEL did not delete the Hash key containing the actual document. As of this version, you can call it with an optional DD (Delete Document) argument, and it will also delete the document. 

For example: `FT.DEL myIndex myDoc DD`.

### 4. Optionally keep document hashes in FT.DROP

Up until now, FT.DROP always deleted the document Hash keys. As of this version, you can specify the `KEEPDOCS` argument to FT.DROP and it will not touch them.

### 5. Delete geo-sets when dropping an index

Until now we did not delete the geo-set keys where documents were geographically indexed. This version fixes this (#[295](https://github.com/RediSearch/RediSearch/issues/295))


