content/rs/security/certificates/_index.md, before:

---
Title: Certificates
linkTitle: Certificates
description: An overview of certificates in Redis Enterprise Software.
weight: 60
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: 
---

Redis Enterprise Software uses self-signed certificates by default to ensure that the product is secure. If using a self-signed certificate is not the right solution for you, you can import a certificate signed by a certificate authority of your choice.

The self-signed certificates establish encryption-in-transit for the following cluster components:

- The admin console
- The REST API
- The proxy, which manages connections between clients and database endpoints
- The syncer, which synchronizes data between clusters (using either Active-Active or Active-Passive replication)
- The metrics exporter, which sends metrics to Prometheus

These self-signed certificates are generated on the first node of each Redis Enterprise Software installation and are copied to all other nodes added to the cluster.

When you use the default self-signed certificates and you connect to the admin console over a web browser, you'll see an untrusted connection notification.

Depending on your browser, you can allow the connection for each session or add an exception to trust the certificate for all future sessions.

Commit message:

Add to the self signed certificates
Expire after 365 days
The user must replace them

content/rs/security/certificates/_index.md, after:

---
Title: Certificates
linkTitle: Certificates
description: An overview of certificates in Redis Enterprise Software.
weight: 60
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: 
---

Redis Enterprise Software uses self-signed certificates by default to ensure that the product is secure. If using a self-signed certificate is not the right solution for you, you can import a certificate signed by a certificate authority of your choice.

If you choose to use the self-signed certificates, note that they are valid for 365 days after which it is the user's responsibility to replace them.

The self-signed certificates establish encryption-in-transit for the following cluster components:

- The admin console
- The REST API
- The proxy, which manages connections between clients and database endpoints
- The syncer, which synchronizes data between clusters (using either Active-Active or Active-Passive replication)
- The metrics exporter, which sends metrics to Prometheus

These self-signed certificates are generated on the first node of each Redis Enterprise Software installation and are copied to all other nodes added to the cluster.

When you use the default self-signed certificates and you connect to the admin console over a web browser, you'll see an untrusted connection notification.

Depending on your browser, you can allow the connection for each session or add an exception to trust the certificate for all future sessions.
