content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/cluster/join.md, before:

---
Title: rladmin cluster join
linkTitle: join
description: Adds a node to an existing cluster.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: 
---

`rladmin cluster join` adds a node to an existing cluster.

```sh
rladmin cluster join 
        name <cluster-name> | nodes <node-address> 
        username <admin-user> 
        password <admin-password>
        [ ephemeral_path <path> ]
        [ persistent_path <path> ]
        [ ccs_persistent_path <path> ]
        [ rack_id <node-rack-id> ]
        [ override_rack_id ]
        [ replace_node <node-uid> ]
        [ flash_enabled ]
        [ flash_path <path> ]
        [ addr <ip-address> ]
        [ external_addr <ip-addresses> ]
        [ override_repair ]
        [ accept_servers <enable | disable> ]
        [ cmn_http_port <port> ]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value | Description |
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| param1 | Description |
| param2 | Description |

### Returns

### Example

```sh
$ rladmin command x
response
```

Commit message:

Updated parameter tables for rladmin cluster commands

content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/cluster/join.md, after:

---
Title: rladmin cluster join
linkTitle: join
description: Adds a node to an existing cluster.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: 
---

`rladmin cluster join` adds a node to an existing cluster.

```sh
rladmin cluster join 
        { name <cluster name> | nodes <node address> } 
        username <admin user> 
        password <admin password>
        [ ephemeral_path <path> ]
        [ persistent_path <path> ]
        [ ccs_persistent_path <path> ]
        [ rack_id <node rack ID> ]
        [ override_rack_id ]
        [ replace_node <node UID> ]
        [ flash_enabled ]
        [ flash_path <path> ]
        [ addr <IP address> ]
        [ external_addr <IP address> ]
        [ override_repair ]
        [ accept_servers { enabled | disabled } ]
        [ cmn_http_port <port> ]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value | Description |
|-----------|------------|-------------|
| accept_servers | 'enabled'<br />'disabled' | Allows allocation of resources on the new node when enabled (optional) |
| addr | IP address | Sets a node's internal address. If not provided, the node sets the address automatically. (optional) |
| ccs_persistent_path | filepath (default:&nbsp;/var/opt/redislabs/persist) | Path to the CCS snapshot location (the default is the same as persistent_path) (optional) |
| cmn_http_port | integer | Joins a cluster that has a non-default cnm_http_port (optional) |
| ephemeral_path | filepath | Path to an ephemeral storage location (optional) |
| external_addr | IP address | Sets a node's external address. If not provided, the node sets the address automatically. (optional) |
| flash_enabled |  | Enables flash capabilities for a database (optional) |
| flash_path | filepath (default:&nbsp;/var/opt/redislabs/flash) | Path to a flash storage location (in case the node does not support CAPI) (required if flash_enabled) |
| name | string | Name of the cluster to join |
| nodes |  | Internal IP address of an existing node in the cluster |
| override_rack_id |  | Changes to a new rack, specified by `rack_id` (optional) |
| override_repair |  | Enables joining a cluster with a dead node (optional) |
| password |  | Admin user's password |
| persistent_path | filepath (default:&nbsp;/var/opt/redislabs/persist) | Path to a persistent storage location (optional) |
| rack_id |  | Switches to this rack ID (optional) |
| replace_node |  | Replaces the specified node with the new node (optional) |
| username | email address | Admin user's email address |

### Returns

### Example

```sh
$ rladmin command x
response
```
