content/rc/api/_index.md, before:

---
Title: API
description:
weight: 80
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rv/api/
---
Redis Cloud Pro (RC Pro) API follows the principles of the REST architectural style to expose programmatic access to Redis Labs Pro features and capabilities.

## Supported Redis Cloud Pro features

The API exposes programmatic access for management of:

- [**Full lifecycle management**]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/provisioning-lifecycle.md" >}}) of Redis Labs Pro Subscriptions and Databases
- [**System Log**]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log.md" >}}) for auditing lifecycle actions (create, update, delete) using
- [**Hosting cloud provider credentials**]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts.md" >}}) definition and management
- **Backup & import databases** from various sources (e.g. AWS S3, FTP etc.)
- **Redis Modules**
- **Alerts settings**
- **Secure connectivity to customer system** using VPC peering and CIDR restrictions settings

## API features

The RC Pro API includes these features:

- Standard REST API (accessible using [any HTTP client / programming language]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/using-curl.md" >}}))
- Supports OpenAPI 2.0 standard
- Exposes [Swagger user interface](https://api.redislabs.com/v1/swagger-ui.html)
- Follows [Semantic Versioning 2.0](https://semver.org/#semantic-versioning-200) guidelines
- Secure [authentication and authorization]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/authentication-and-authorization.md" >}})
- Support for multiple personal [API Keys]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/enable-your-account-to-use-api.md" >}}) (named and fully audited)
- Restrict API usage to specific source IP addresses / ranges

## Getting started

1. [Enable your Account to use API]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/enable-your-account-to-use-api.md" >}})
1. [Authentication and Authorization]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/authentication-and-authorization.md" >}})
1. [Create API Keys for your team]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/create-api-keys-for-your-team.md" >}})
1. [Using the API]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/using-curl.md" >}})
1. [The Processing and Provisioning Lifecycle]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/provisioning-lifecycle.md" >}})
1. [Create and manage Subscriptions]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-subscriptions.md" >}})

Commit message:

Update to clarify API availability (#1244)
* Initial check-in

* Minor edits.

* More minor edits.

* Additional details/edits

* Update content/rc/api/how-to/enable-your-account-to-use-api.md

Co-authored-by: Kyle Banker <banker@users.noreply.github.com>

* Feedback updates.

Co-authored-by: Kyle Banker <banker@users.noreply.github.com>

content/rc/api/_index.md, after:

---
Title: REST API
description: Describes the Redis Cloud REST API and links to additional info
weight: 80
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rv/api/
---

The [Redis Cloud REST API]((https://api.redislabs.com/v1/swagger-ui.html)) helps you manage your Redis Cloud subscription programmatically.

You can use the API to:

- Add or update users  
- Create or manage databases  
- Define or change hosting credentials  
- Define or manage roles and permissions  
- Audit access via logs  
- Backup or import databases  

{{< note >}}
The Redis Cloud REST API is available only with Flexible or Annual subscriptions.  It is not supported for Fixed or Free subscriptions.
{{< /note >}}

## Getting started

1. [Enable the API]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/enable-your-account-to-use-api.md" >}})
1. [Authenticate and authorize]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/authentication-and-authorization.md" >}})
1. [Create API keys]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/create-api-keys-for-your-team.md" >}})
1. [Use the API]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/using-curl.md" >}})
1. [Learn the API lifecycle]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/provisioning-lifecycle.md" >}})
1. [Create and manage subscriptions]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-subscriptions.md" >}})

## More info

- Use the [Redis Cloud API]({{< relref  "/rc/api/how-to/using-curl.md" >}})
- [Full API Reference](https://api.redislabs.com/v1/swagger-ui.html)
- Secure [authentication and authorization]({{< relref  "/rc/api/concepts/authentication-and-authorization.md" >}})
