content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/node/external-addr.md, before:

---
Title: rladmin node external_addr
linkTitle: external-addr
description: Configures the external IP addresses of a node.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
headerRange: "[1-2]"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases:
---

`rladmin node external_addr` configures the external IP addresses of a node.

## `node external_addr add`

Adds an external IP address that accepts inbound user connections for the node.

```sh
rladmin node <id>
        external_addr add <ip_addr>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node      | integer                        | Adds external IP address for the specified node                                               |
| ip_addr   | IP address                     | External IP address of the node                                                               |

### Returns

Returns `Updated successfully` if the IP address was added.

Use [`rladmin status nodes`]({{<relref "/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/status#status-nodes">}}) to verify the external IP address was added.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin node 1 external_addr add 198.51.100.1
Updated successfully.
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS  HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES       FREE_RAM         PROVISIONAL_RAM  VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1      3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6           14.75GB/19.54GB  11.15GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3                   fc7a3d332458 0/100  6           14.75GB/19.54GB  11.24GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                   b87cc06c830f 5/120  6           14.75GB/19.54GB  11.15GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK
```

## `node external_addr set`

Sets one or more external IP addresses that accepts inbound user connections for the node.

```sh
rladmin node <id>
        external_addr add <ip_addr1> .. <ip_addrN>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node      | integer                        | Sets external IP addresses for the specified node                                             |
| ip_addr   | list of IP addresses           | Sets specified IP addresses as external addresses                                                 |

### Returns

Returns `Updated successfully` if the IP addresses were set.

Use [`rladmin status nodes`]({{<relref "/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/status#status-nodes">}}) to verify the external IP address was set.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin node 2 external_addr set 198.51.100.2 198.51.100.3
Updated successfully.
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS          HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES FREE_RAM        PROVISIONAL_RAM VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1              3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3 198.51.100.2,198.51.100.3 fc7a3d332458 0/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.23GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                           b87cc06c830f 5/120  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
```
## `node external_addr remove`

Adds an external IP address that accepts inbound user connections for the node.

```sh
rladmin node <id>
        external_addr remove <ip_addr>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node      | integer                        | Removes external IP address for the specified node                                            |
| ip_addr   | IP address                     | Removes specified IP address of the node                                                      |

### Returns

Returns `Updated successfully` if the IP address was removed.

Use [`rladmin status nodes`]({{<relref "/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/status#status-nodes">}}) to verify the external IP address was removed.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS          HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES FREE_RAM        PROVISIONAL_RAM VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1              3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3 198.51.100.2,198.51.100.3 fc7a3d332458 0/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.23GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                           b87cc06c830f 5/120  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
$ rladmin node 2 external_addr remove 198.51.100.3
Updated successfully.
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS  HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES       FREE_RAM         PROVISIONAL_RAM  VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1      3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6           14.74GB/19.54GB  11.14GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK    
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3 198.51.100.2      fc7a3d332458 0/100  6           14.74GB/19.54GB  11.22GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK    
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                   b87cc06c830f 5/120  6           14.74GB/19.54GB  11.14GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK    
```

Commit message:

Adds error clause in Returns

content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/node/external-addr.md, after:

---
Title: rladmin node external_addr
linkTitle: external-addr
description: Configures the external IP addresses of a node.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
headerRange: "[1-2]"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases:
---

`rladmin node external_addr` configures the external IP addresses of a node.

## `node external_addr add`

Adds an external IP address that accepts inbound user connections for the node.

```sh
rladmin node <id>
        external_addr add <ip_addr>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node      | integer                        | Adds external IP address for the specified node                                               |
| ip_addr   | IP address                     | External IP address of the node                                                               |

### Returns

Returns `Updated successfully` if the IP address was added. Otherwise, it returns an error.

Use [`rladmin status nodes`]({{<relref "/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/status#status-nodes">}}) to verify the external IP address was added.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin node 1 external_addr add 198.51.100.1
Updated successfully.
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS  HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES       FREE_RAM         PROVISIONAL_RAM  VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1      3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6           14.75GB/19.54GB  11.15GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3                   fc7a3d332458 0/100  6           14.75GB/19.54GB  11.24GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                   b87cc06c830f 5/120  6           14.75GB/19.54GB  11.15GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK
```

## `node external_addr set`

Sets one or more external IP addresses that accepts inbound user connections for the node.

```sh
rladmin node <id>
        external_addr add <ip_addr1> .. <ip_addrN>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node      | integer                        | Sets external IP addresses for the specified node                                             |
| ip_addr   | list of IP addresses           | Sets specified IP addresses as external addresses                                                 |

### Returns

Returns `Updated successfully` if the IP addresses were set. Otherwise, it returns an error.

Use [`rladmin status nodes`]({{<relref "/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/status#status-nodes">}}) to verify the external IP address was set.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin node 2 external_addr set 198.51.100.2 198.51.100.3
Updated successfully.
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS          HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES FREE_RAM        PROVISIONAL_RAM VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1              3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3 198.51.100.2,198.51.100.3 fc7a3d332458 0/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.23GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                           b87cc06c830f 5/120  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
```
## `node external_addr remove`

Adds an external IP address that accepts inbound user connections for the node.

```sh
rladmin node <id>
        external_addr remove <ip_addr>
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Type/Value                     | Description                                                                                   |
|-----------|--------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| node      | integer                        | Removes external IP address for the specified node                                            |
| ip_addr   | IP address                     | Removes specified IP address of the node                                                      |

### Returns

Returns `Updated successfully` if the IP address was removed. Otherwise, it returns an error.

Use [`rladmin status nodes`]({{<relref "/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/status#status-nodes">}}) to verify the external IP address was removed.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS          HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES FREE_RAM        PROVISIONAL_RAM VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1              3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3 198.51.100.2,198.51.100.3 fc7a3d332458 0/100  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.23GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                           b87cc06c830f 5/120  6     14.75GB/19.54GB 11.15GB/16.02GB 6.2.12-37 OK
$ rladmin node 2 external_addr remove 198.51.100.3
Updated successfully.
$ rladmin status nodes
CLUSTER NODES:
NODE:ID ROLE   ADDRESS   EXTERNAL_ADDRESS  HOSTNAME     SHARDS CORES       FREE_RAM         PROVISIONAL_RAM  VERSION   STATUS
*node:1 master 192.0.2.2 198.51.100.1      3d99db1fdf4b 5/100  6           14.74GB/19.54GB  11.14GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK    
node:2  slave  192.0.2.3 198.51.100.2      fc7a3d332458 0/100  6           14.74GB/19.54GB  11.22GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK    
node:3  slave  192.0.2.4                   b87cc06c830f 5/120  6           14.74GB/19.54GB  11.14GB/16.02GB  6.2.12-37 OK    
```
