---
Title: Redis Enterprise Software release notes 6.4.2-43 (March 2023)
linkTitle: 6.4.2-43 (March 2023)
description: Ubuntu 20.04 support. Safe node removal. Allow gossip_envoy port configuration.
compatibleOSSVersion: Redis 6.2.6
weight: 71
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: 
---

This is a maintenance release for ​[​Redis Enterprise Software version 6.4.2](https://redis.com/redis-enterprise-software/download-center/software/).

The following table shows the MD5 checksums for the available packages:

| Package | MD5 checksum (6.4.2-43 March release) |
|---------|---------------------------------------|
| Ubuntu 16 | bb3d3ab7590834790d2d9d9e3dcdf788 |
| Ubuntu 18 | 55e99e6db76277c15fa46c49d58995b5 |
| Ubuntu 20 | cccfa62ca7ea955b8c19d9c40bdc1fea |
| RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 7<br/>Oracle Enterprise Linux (OL) 7 | eed4083b0b4c066d31ea9b8ba60a34f5 |
| RedHat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 8<br/>Oracle Enterprise Linux (OL) 8 <br/>Rocky Enterprise Linux | 7fd4321f6a5502c76197fc039f44ffa3 |

## New features and enhancements

#### Support for Ubuntu 20

Added operating system support for Ubuntu 20.04.

#### Validate client certificates by subject attributes

- Added the ability to enter multiple `Organizational Unit (OU)` values to a certificate validation's subject entry. Subject validation only succeeds if all `OU` values match.

- Validation fails if the certificate’s subject contains an extra field which is missing from the certificate’s configured subject (empty field).

#### Safe node removal (RS92095)

As of this release, the node removal task waits for persistence files to be created on a new node before finishing removal. For more information, see [Remove a cluster node](https://docs.redis.com/latest/rs/clusters/remove-node/) and [`rladmin node remove`](https://docs.redis.com/latest/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/node/remove/).

#### Allow port configuration for gossip_envoy service (RS72028) 

You can use the REST API to configure the `gossip_envoy_admin_port` during bootstrapping or runtime. See the [cluster object reference]({{<relref "/rs/references/rest-api/objects/cluster">}}) for more details.

Support for `rladmin` will be added in a future 6.4.2 maintenance release.

#### Redis Stack v6.2.6

Redis Enterprise Software v6.4.2 includes the new features delivered in the latest [Redis Stack release (v6.2.6)](https://redis.com/blog/introducing-redis-stack-6-2-6-and-7-0-6/ ):

- [RediSearch v2.6.4](https://docs.redis.com/latest/modules/redisearch/release-notes/redisearch-2.6-release-notes/#v264-december-2022)

- [RedisJSON v2.4.5](https://docs.redis.com/latest/modules/redisjson/release-notes/redisjson-2.4-release-notes/#v245-february-2023)

- [RedisBloom v2.4.3](https://docs.redis.com/latest/modules/redisbloom/release-notes/redisbloom-2.4-release-notes/#v24-ga-v243-november-2022)

- [RedisGraph v2.10.5](https://docs.redis.com/latest/modules/redisgraph/release-notes/redisgraph-2.10-release-notes/#v2105-december-2022)

- [RedisTimeSeries v1.8.5](https://docs.redis.com/latest/modules/redistimeseries/release-notes/redistimeseries-1.8-release-notes/#v185-january-2023)

See [Upgrade modules](https://docs.redis.com/latest/modules/install/upgrade-module/) to learn how to upgrade a module for a database.

## Resolved issues

- RS95344 - Fix custom installation linkage bug for files related to Active-Active

- RS91554 - Enhance visibility of `redis_mgr` 

- RS90496 - Improve cross-node communication to support failovers

- RS93004 - Allow positive `audit_port` configuration

- RS58918 - Reduce the number of clients blocked by flushing a database. Only the client that requested the flush will be blocked until the action finishes. Other clients won't be affected.

- RS85447 - When creating a database, the memory size is total memory for the database, not the total dataset size. Therefore, if you enable replication and the database has two shards, each shard will have half of the allocated memory size.

- RS90556 -  `Heartbeatd` - upgrade [`sysinfo`](https://crates.io/crates/sysinfo) dependency 0.19.1 -> 0.27.7

- RS62552 - Fix database authentication failures for LDAP users when the password contains the `%` character

- RS93566 - Added [`rlcheck`](https://docs.redis.com/latest/rs/references/cli-utilities/rlcheck/) validation step to verify that all needed modules (modules used during the initial creation of any CRDBs on the cluster) are actually available on the cluster. In some cases, if a specific module version is required, the user will need to upload it in order to upgrade the cluster. After the upgrade is complete, you can delete the required module.

## Known limitations

### Feature limitations

#### Resharding fails for rack-aware databases with no replication

When a database is configured as [rack-aware]({{<relref "/rs/clusters/configure/rack-zone-awareness">}}) and replication is turned off, the resharding operation fails.

RS97971 - This limitation will be fixed in a future 6.4.2 maintenance release.    

Workaround:

Before resharding your database, turn off rack awareness:

```sh
curl -k -u "<user>:<password>" -H "Content-type: application/json" -d '{"rack_aware": false}' -X PUT "https://localhost:9443/v1/bdbs/<bdb_uid>"
```

After the resharding process is complete, you can re-enable rack awareness:

```sh
curl -k -u "<user>:<password>" -H "Content-type: application/json" -d '{"rack_aware": true}' -X PUT "https://localhost:9443/v1/bdbs/<bdb_uid>"
```

### Operating system limitations

#### RHEL 7 and RHEL 8

RS95344 - CRDB database will not start on Redis Enterprise v6.4.2 with a custom installation path.

For a workaround, use the following commands to add the relevant CRDB files to the Redis library:

```sh
$ yum install -y chrpath
$ find $installdir -name "crdt.so" | xargs -n1 -I {} /bin/bash -c 'chrpath -r ${libdir} {}'
```

This limitation will be fixed in a future 6.4.2 maintenance release.

#### Ubuntu 20.04

By default, you cannot use the SHA1 hash algorithm ([OpenSSL’s default security level is set to 2](https://manpages.ubuntu.com/manpages/focal/man3/SSL_CTX_set_security_level.3ssl.html#notes)). The operating system will reject SHA1 certificates even if the `mtls_allow_weak_hashing` option is enabled. You need to replace SHA1 certificates with newer certificates that use SHA-256. Note that the certificates provided with Redis Enterprise Software use SHA-256.  


#### Ubuntu 16, 18, 20

RS95824 - An error occurs when running `rl_rdbconvert` manually.

As a workaround, run the following command:

```sh
LD_LIBRARY_PATH=$libdir rl_rdbconvert
```
