---
Title: RediSearch v1.4.1 Release Notes
description: RediSearch v1.4.1 Release Notes
weight: 10401
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Modules"]
---

Update urgency: Medium

This is a maintenance release for version 1.4, with the next version planned for release being 2.0.

This release improves overall stability and focuses on performance improvements of the garbage collector. It also includes:

- New: Runtime Configuration
- Change: Unlimited Autocomplete Results

## Garbage Collector

RediSearch employs a garbage collector that removes deleted documents from the internal data structures.

In this release the garbage collection mechanism was improved in terms of efficiency, i.e. the amount of memory it reclaims, as well as in terms of performance (i.e. it is faster). The improved mechanism uses forked threads. Additional details can be found in this post: [How We Increased Garbage Collection Performance with RediSearch 1.4.1](https://redislabs.com/blog/increased-garbage-collection-performance-redisearch-1-4-1/).

The improved collection mechanism is currently **experimental** and is not enabled by default. Enabling the new garbage collection mechanism requires setting the `GC_POLICY` configuration option to `FORK` at load time, for example:

```
$ redis-server --loadmodule ./redisearch.so GC_POLICY FORK
```

## Runtime Configuration

RediSearch's [configuration](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisearch/Configuring/) is applied via arguments passed to the module at load time. This release introduces the new [`FT.CONFIG`  command](https://oss.redislabs.com/redisearch/Commands/#ftconfig) that allows to retrieve the current configuration as well as change it during runtime.

## Unlimited Autocomplete Results

This version removes the limit of 10 results from `FT.SUGGET` - you can set the `MAX num` as high as needed.
