content/platforms/kubernetes/_index.md, before:

---
Title: Getting Started with Redis Enterprise Software using Kubernetes
description:
weight: 90
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: /rs/getting-started/getting-started-kubernetes/
         /rs/administering/kubernetes/
---
Kubernetes provides simpler orchestration with containers and has been widely adopted. It is simple to get a Redis Enterprise cluster on Kubernetes with the Redis Enterprise Operator deployment.

{{< allchildren style="h2" description="true" />}}

{{% comment %}}
## What is Redis Enterprise?

Redis is the most popular database used with Docker containers. Redis Enterprise (Redise) extends open source Redis and delivers stable high performance, linear scaling and high availability with significant operational savings.

We use the Docker container for 4.5 version of Redis Enterprise for the steps here. You can find more information on the container image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/redislabs/redis/) and see details on how to deploy the container locally with Docker below:

- [Working with Redis Enterprise and Docker]({{< relref "/rs/getting-started/docker/_index.md" >}})
- [Getting Started with Redis Enterprise Software on Docker]({{< relref "/rs/getting-started/getting-started-docker.md" >}})

## Deploying Redis Enterprise with Kubernetes on Google Cloud

Here are the 4 steps to set up our cluster with Redis Enterprise:

- Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud
- Step 2: Deploy the Redis Enterprise containers to Kubernetes cluster
- Step 3: Set up Redis Enterprise cluster
- Step 4: Create a Redis database and test your connectivity

### Requirements

The steps below were performed using the latest [Google Cloud sdk](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) and [kubectl tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/kubectl/install/) on MacOS. There may be slight differences in detailed instructions with another operating system.

## Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud

Let's first get your CLI environment set up.

- First authenticate to your Google Cloud environment.

    gcloud auth login

- Get the default project_ID set. Here is how you can list and set the project context to be used by upcoming commands. If you do not explicitly specify an ID, the containers are assigned a random ID, such as "speedy-lattice-166011".

    gcloud projects list

    gcloud config set project speedy-lattice-166011

- Finally, let's get the default zone/geography where you want your cluster set up. Here is how you can list the zones and set the zone context to be used by upcoming commands.

    gcloud compute zones list

    gcloud config set compute/zone europe-west1-c

Let's get the Kubernetes cluster up and running.

On your Google Cloud console, click on "Kubernetes Engine" option on the left nav and create a new cluster.

<!-- Add image -->

To define your Kubernetes cluster, give it a name and keep the size of the cluster to 3 nodes. we'll use all 3 nodes to deploy the Redis Enterprise cluster. I recommend you keep the size of nodes at least 2 cores and over 7GB RAM.

<!-- Add image -->

{{< note >}}
It may take a few mins to create the cluster. Ensure the Kubernetes cluster creation is complete before proceeding to the next step.
{{< /note >}}

For best placement, Redis Enterprise pods should be placed on separate physical nodes in the Kubernetes cluster. This makes sure that there is better availability during node failures. Placing multiple Redis Enterprise nodes in the same physical host can cause multiple nodes to fail at once and may result in availability and data loss.

<!-- Add image -->

{{< note >}}
By the way, If you are a commandline kind of person, here is how you can simplify the three screen above into 2 simple lines;

    gcloud container clusters create cluster-1 --num-nodes=3 -m n1-standard-2
{{< /note >}}

Finally to finish the Kubernetes deployment, you need to get the Kubernetes console up and running and start the Kubernetes proxy. on the terminal window, run the following commands;

Connect to the Kubernetes cluster

    gcloud container clusters get-credentials cluster-1

The output shows;

    # Fetching cluster endpoint and auth data.
    # kubeconfig entry generated for cluster-1.

And finally start the Kubernetes proxy:

    kubectl proxy

## Step 2: Deploy the Redis Enterprise containers to Kubernetes cluster

You now need to feed the container yaml file to provision Redis Enterprise cluster. You can download a sample [container yaml file](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/platforms/kubernetes/redis-enterprise.yaml).

    kubectl apply -f redis-enterprise.yaml

If the deployment is successful, the output should look like this;

    # deployment "redispack-deployment" created
    # service "redispack" created

You can now see the list of container nodes deployed on the Kubernetes cluster. Simply run the following to see the list of nodes

    kubectl get po

The output looks something like this;

    NAME READY STATUS RESTARTS AGE

    redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg 1/1 Running 0 7s

    redispack-deployment-709212938-k8njr 1/1 Running 0 7s

    redispack-deployment-709212938-kcjd7 1/1 Running 0 7s

## Step 3: Set up Redis Enterprise cluster

We are now ready to create the Redis Enterprise cluster. There is one small change that needs to be done to the container to get networking to work properly: we need to change the css binding to 0.0.0.0. To do this, you need to run the following in each container with each iteration using the pods name from the _kubectl get po_ output above.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg -- bash

    # sudo su -
    # sed 's/bind 127.0.0.1/bind 0.0.0.0/g' -i /opt/redislabs/config/ccs-redis.conf
    # cnm_ctl restart

With this, let's provision the first node or the Redis Enterprise cluster.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg "/opt/redislabs/bin/rladmin" cluster create name cluster.local username cihan@redislabs.com password redislabs123 flash_enabled

We need the ip address of the first node to instruct the following nodes to join the cluster.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg ifconfig | grep "inet addr"

In my case the output was 10.0.2.10. Lets add node 2 and 3 to the cluster

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-k8njr "/opt/redislabs/bin/rladmin" cluster join username cihan@redislabs.com password redislabs123 nodes 10.0.2.10 flash_enabled

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-kcjd7 "/opt/redislabs/bin/rladmin" cluster join username cihan@redislabs.com password redislabs123 nodes 10.0.2.10 flash_enabled

## Step 4: Create a Redis database and test your connectivity

We are now ready to create the database and connect to it. The following curl command can be used to create a database on port 12000. The default database name is "sample-db".

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg bash

    # curl -k -u "cihan@redislabs.com:redislabs123" --request POST --url "https://localhost:9443/v1/bdbs" --header 'content-type: application/json' --data '{"name":"sample-db","type":"redis","memory_size":1073741824,"port":12000}'

To test the connection to the database, we use the _redis-cli_ tool. Here is a simple set followed by a get to validate the Redis deployment.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg bash

    # /opt/redislabs/bin/redis-cli -p 12000

    # 127.0.0.1:12000> set a 1

    # OK

    # 127.0.0.1:12000> get a

    # "1"

    # 127.0.0.1:12000>

{{< note >}}
To clean up the deployment you can simply delete the cluster using the following command line

    gcloud container clusters delete cluster-1
{{< /note >}}
{{% /comment %}}

Commit message:

regorganization of K8s to getting started, concepts, tasks, and reference

content/platforms/kubernetes/_index.md, after:

---
Title: Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes
description:
weight: 10
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: /rs/getting-started/getting-started-kubernetes/
         /rs/administering/kubernetes/
---
Kubernetes provides enterprise orchestration of containers and has been widely adopted. The Redis Enterprise Operator for Kubernetes provides a
simple way to get a Redis Enterprise cluster on Kubernetes as well as enables more complex deployment scenarios.

{{< allchildren style="h2" description="true" />}}

{{% comment %}}
## What is Redis Enterprise?

Redis is the most popular database used with Docker containers. Redis Enterprise (Redise) extends open source Redis and delivers stable high performance, linear scaling and high availability with significant operational savings.

We use the Docker container for 4.5 version of Redis Enterprise for the steps here. You can find more information on the container image on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/redislabs/redis/) and see details on how to deploy the container locally with Docker below:

- [Working with Redis Enterprise and Docker]({{< relref "/rs/getting-started/docker/_index.md" >}})
- [Getting Started with Redis Enterprise Software on Docker]({{< relref "/rs/getting-started/getting-started-docker.md" >}})

## Deploying Redis Enterprise with Kubernetes on Google Cloud

Here are the 4 steps to set up our cluster with Redis Enterprise:

- Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud
- Step 2: Deploy the Redis Enterprise containers to Kubernetes cluster
- Step 3: Set up Redis Enterprise cluster
- Step 4: Create a Redis database and test your connectivity

### Requirements

The steps below were performed using the latest [Google Cloud sdk](https://cloud.google.com/sdk/) and [kubectl tool](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/kubectl/install/) on MacOS. There may be slight differences in detailed instructions with another operating system.

## Step 1: Create a Kubernetes cluster on Google Cloud

Let's first get your CLI environment set up.

- First authenticate to your Google Cloud environment.

    gcloud auth login

- Get the default project_ID set. Here is how you can list and set the project context to be used by upcoming commands. If you do not explicitly specify an ID, the containers are assigned a random ID, such as "speedy-lattice-166011".

    gcloud projects list

    gcloud config set project speedy-lattice-166011

- Finally, let's get the default zone/geography where you want your cluster set up. Here is how you can list the zones and set the zone context to be used by upcoming commands.

    gcloud compute zones list

    gcloud config set compute/zone europe-west1-c

Let's get the Kubernetes cluster up and running.

On your Google Cloud console, click on "Kubernetes Engine" option on the left nav and create a new cluster.

<!-- Add image -->

To define your Kubernetes cluster, give it a name and keep the size of the cluster to 3 nodes. we'll use all 3 nodes to deploy the Redis Enterprise cluster. I recommend you keep the size of nodes at least 2 cores and over 7GB RAM.

<!-- Add image -->

{{< note >}}
It may take a few mins to create the cluster. Ensure the Kubernetes cluster creation is complete before proceeding to the next step.
{{< /note >}}

For best placement, Redis Enterprise pods should be placed on separate physical nodes in the Kubernetes cluster. This makes sure that there is better availability during node failures. Placing multiple Redis Enterprise nodes in the same physical host can cause multiple nodes to fail at once and may result in availability and data loss.

<!-- Add image -->

{{< note >}}
By the way, If you are a commandline kind of person, here is how you can simplify the three screen above into 2 simple lines;

    gcloud container clusters create cluster-1 --num-nodes=3 -m n1-standard-2
{{< /note >}}

Finally to finish the Kubernetes deployment, you need to get the Kubernetes console up and running and start the Kubernetes proxy. on the terminal window, run the following commands;

Connect to the Kubernetes cluster

    gcloud container clusters get-credentials cluster-1

The output shows;

    # Fetching cluster endpoint and auth data.
    # kubeconfig entry generated for cluster-1.

And finally start the Kubernetes proxy:

    kubectl proxy

## Step 2: Deploy the Redis Enterprise containers to Kubernetes cluster

You now need to feed the container yaml file to provision Redis Enterprise cluster. You can download a sample [container yaml file](https://docs.redislabs.com/latest/platforms/kubernetes/redis-enterprise.yaml).

    kubectl apply -f redis-enterprise.yaml

If the deployment is successful, the output should look like this;

    # deployment "redispack-deployment" created
    # service "redispack" created

You can now see the list of container nodes deployed on the Kubernetes cluster. Simply run the following to see the list of nodes

    kubectl get po

The output looks something like this;

    NAME READY STATUS RESTARTS AGE

    redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg 1/1 Running 0 7s

    redispack-deployment-709212938-k8njr 1/1 Running 0 7s

    redispack-deployment-709212938-kcjd7 1/1 Running 0 7s

## Step 3: Set up Redis Enterprise cluster

We are now ready to create the Redis Enterprise cluster. There is one small change that needs to be done to the container to get networking to work properly: we need to change the css binding to 0.0.0.0. To do this, you need to run the following in each container with each iteration using the pods name from the _kubectl get po_ output above.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg -- bash

    # sudo su -
    # sed 's/bind 127.0.0.1/bind 0.0.0.0/g' -i /opt/redislabs/config/ccs-redis.conf
    # cnm_ctl restart

With this, let's provision the first node or the Redis Enterprise cluster.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg "/opt/redislabs/bin/rladmin" cluster create name cluster.local username cihan@redislabs.com password redislabs123 flash_enabled

We need the ip address of the first node to instruct the following nodes to join the cluster.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg ifconfig | grep "inet addr"

In my case the output was 10.0.2.10. Lets add node 2 and 3 to the cluster

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-k8njr "/opt/redislabs/bin/rladmin" cluster join username cihan@redislabs.com password redislabs123 nodes 10.0.2.10 flash_enabled

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-kcjd7 "/opt/redislabs/bin/rladmin" cluster join username cihan@redislabs.com password redislabs123 nodes 10.0.2.10 flash_enabled

## Step 4: Create a Redis database and test your connectivity

We are now ready to create the database and connect to it. The following curl command can be used to create a database on port 12000. The default database name is "sample-db".

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg bash

    # curl -k -u "cihan@redislabs.com:redislabs123" --request POST --url "https://localhost:9443/v1/bdbs" --header 'content-type: application/json' --data '{"name":"sample-db","type":"redis","memory_size":1073741824,"port":12000}'

To test the connection to the database, we use the _redis-cli_ tool. Here is a simple set followed by a get to validate the Redis deployment.

    kubectl exec -it redispack-deployment-709212938-765lg bash

    # /opt/redislabs/bin/redis-cli -p 12000

    # 127.0.0.1:12000> set a 1

    # OK

    # 127.0.0.1:12000> get a

    # "1"

    # 127.0.0.1:12000>

{{< note >}}
To clean up the deployment you can simply delete the cluster using the following command line

    gcloud container clusters delete cluster-1
{{< /note >}}
{{% /comment %}}
