content/rs/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration.md, before:

---
Title: Prometheus integration with Redis Enterprise Software
linkTitle: Prometheus integration
description: To collect and display metrics data from your databases and other cluster components, you can connect your Prometheus or Grafana server to your Redis Enterprise cluster.
weight: 30
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: [
    /rs/administering/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration/,
    /rs/administering/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration.md,
    /rs/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration.md,
    /rs/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration/,
]
---
To collect and display metrics data from your databases and other cluster components,
you can connect your Prometheus or Grafana server to your Redis Enterprise cluster.
Metrics are exposed at the node, database, shard and proxy levels.

- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit that can scrape metrics from different sources.
- [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is an open-source, feature-rich metrics dashboard and graph editor that can process Prometheus data.

![grafana-prometheus](/images/rs/grafana-prometheus.png)

In each cluster, the metrics_exporter component listens on port 8070 and serves as a Prometheus scraping endpoint for obtaining metrics.

## Quick start

To get started with custom monitoring:

1. Create a directory called 'prometheus' on your local machine.

1. Within that directory, create a file called `prometheus.yml`.
1. Add the following contents to the yml file and replace `<cluster_name>` with your Redis cluster's FQDN:

    {{< note >}}

This is for development testing only (running in Docker).

    {{< /note >}}

    ```yml
    global:
      scrape_interval: 15s
      evaluation_interval: 15s

    # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
    # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
      external_labels:
        monitor: "prometheus-stack-monitor"

    # Load and evaluate rules in this file every 'evaluation_interval' seconds.
    #rule_files:
    # - "first.rules"
    # - "second.rules"

    scrape_configs:
    # scrape Prometheus itself
      - job_name: prometheus
        scrape_interval: 10s
        scrape_timeout: 5s
        static_configs:
          - targets: ["localhost:9090"]

    # scrape Redis Enterprise
      - job_name: redis-enterprise
        scrape_interval: 30s
        scrape_timeout: 30s
        metrics_path: /
        scheme: https
        tls_config:
          insecure_skip_verify: true
        static_configs:
          - targets: ["<cluster_name>:8070"]
    ```

1. Set up your Prometheus and Grafana servers.
    To set up Prometheus and Grafana on Docker containers:
    1. Create a _docker-compose.yml_ file with this yaml contents:

        ```yml
        version: '3'
        services:
            prometheus-server:
                image: prom/prometheus
                ports:
                    - 9090:9090
                volumes:
                    - ./prometheus/prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml

            grafana-ui:
                image: grafana/grafana
                ports:
                    - 3000:3000
                environment:
                    - GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD=secret
                links:
                    - prometheus-server:prometheus
        ```

    1. To start the containers, run: `docker-compose up -d`
    1. To check that all the containers are up, run: `docker ps`
    1. In your browser, login to Prometheus at http://localhost:9090 to make sure the server is running.
    1. Enter **node_up** in the Expression field.
        If Prometheus is connected to the Redis Enterprise cluster, the cluster metrics are shown.

1. Configure the Grafana datasource:
    1. Login to Grafana. If you installed Grafana locally, go to http://localhost:3000 and login with:

        - Username: admin
        - Password: secret

    1. In the Grafana configuration menu, select **Data Sources**.

        ![data-sources](/images/rs/data-sources.png)

    1. Add a new data source with:

        - Name: `redis-enterprise`
        - Type: `Prometheus`
        - URL: `http://<your prometheus address>:9090`
        - Access: `Server`

    ![prometheus-connection](/images/rs/prometheus-connection.png)

    {{< note >}}

- If the network port is not accessible to the Grafana server, select the **Browser** option from the Access menu.
- In a testing environment, you can select **Skip TLS verification**.

    {{< /note >}}

1. Add dashboards for cluster, node, and database metrics.
    To add preconfigured dashboards:
    1. In the Grafana dashboards menu, select **Manage**.
    1. Click **Import**.
    1. Copy one of the configurations into the **Paste JSON** field.
        {{% expand "database.json" %}}

```json
{{% embed-code "/rs/database.json" %}}
```

        {{% /expand%}}
        {{%expand "node.json" %}}

```json
{{% embed-code "/rs/node.json" %}}
```

        {{% /expand%}}
        {{%expand "cluster.json" %}}

```json
{{% embed-code "/rs/cluster.json" %}}
```

        {{% /expand%}}
    1. In the Import options, select the `redis-enterprise` datasource and click **Import**.

The dashboards that you create from the configurations are sample dashboards.
For more information about configuring dashboards, see the [Grafana documentation](http://docs.grafana.org).

Commit message:

Added common use cases for Prometheus and Grafana together with RS

content/rs/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration.md, after:

---
Title: Prometheus integration with Redis Enterprise Software
linkTitle: Prometheus integration
description: To collect and display metrics data from your databases and other cluster components, you can connect your Prometheus or Grafana server to your Redis Enterprise cluster.
weight: 30
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: [
    /rs/administering/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration/,
    /rs/administering/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration.md,
    /rs/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration.md,
    /rs/monitoring-metrics/prometheus-integration/,
]
---
To collect and display metrics data from your databases and other cluster components,
you can connect your Prometheus or Grafana server to your Redis Enterprise Software (RS) cluster.
Metrics are exposed at the node, database, shard and proxy levels.

- [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/) is an open-source systems monitoring and alerting toolkit that can scrape metrics from different sources.
- [Grafana](https://grafana.com/) is an open-source, feature-rich metrics dashboard and graph editor that can process Prometheus data.

-  Common use cases for Prometheus and Grafana together with RS are:  
    - To collect and display data metrics not available in the [admin console]({{< relref "/rs/monitoring-metrics/console-metrics-definitions.md" >}}).

    - To set up automatic alerts for node or cluster events.

    - To display RS metric data alongside data from other applications.


![grafana-prometheus](/images/rs/grafana-prometheus.png)

In each cluster, the metrics_exporter component listens on port 8070 and serves as a Prometheus scraping endpoint for obtaining metrics.

## Quick start

To get started with custom monitoring:

1. Create a directory called 'prometheus' on your local machine.

1. Within that directory, create a file called `prometheus.yml`.
1. Add the following contents to the yml file and replace `<cluster_name>` with your Redis cluster's FQDN:

    {{< note >}}

This is for development testing only (running in Docker).

    {{< /note >}}

    ```yml
    global:
      scrape_interval: 15s
      evaluation_interval: 15s

    # Attach these labels to any time series or alerts when communicating with
    # external systems (federation, remote storage, Alertmanager).
      external_labels:
        monitor: "prometheus-stack-monitor"

    # Load and evaluate rules in this file every 'evaluation_interval' seconds.
    #rule_files:
    # - "first.rules"
    # - "second.rules"

    scrape_configs:
    # scrape Prometheus itself
      - job_name: prometheus
        scrape_interval: 10s
        scrape_timeout: 5s
        static_configs:
          - targets: ["localhost:9090"]

    # scrape Redis Enterprise
      - job_name: redis-enterprise
        scrape_interval: 30s
        scrape_timeout: 30s
        metrics_path: /
        scheme: https
        tls_config:
          insecure_skip_verify: true
        static_configs:
          - targets: ["<cluster_name>:8070"]
    ```

1. Set up your Prometheus and Grafana servers.
    To set up Prometheus and Grafana on Docker containers:
    1. Create a _docker-compose.yml_ file with this yaml contents:

        ```yml
        version: '3'
        services:
            prometheus-server:
                image: prom/prometheus
                ports:
                    - 9090:9090
                volumes:
                    - ./prometheus/prometheus.yml:/etc/prometheus/prometheus.yml

            grafana-ui:
                image: grafana/grafana
                ports:
                    - 3000:3000
                environment:
                    - GF_SECURITY_ADMIN_PASSWORD=secret
                links:
                    - prometheus-server:prometheus
        ```

    1. To start the containers, run: `docker-compose up -d`
    1. To check that all the containers are up, run: `docker ps`
    1. In your browser, login to Prometheus at http://localhost:9090 to make sure the server is running.
    1. Enter **node_up** in the Expression field.
        If Prometheus is connected to the Redis Enterprise cluster, the cluster metrics are shown.

1. Configure the Grafana datasource:
    1. Login to Grafana. If you installed Grafana locally, go to http://localhost:3000 and login with:

        - Username: admin
        - Password: secret

    1. In the Grafana configuration menu, select **Data Sources**.

        ![data-sources](/images/rs/data-sources.png)

    1. Add a new data source with:

        - Name: `redis-enterprise`
        - Type: `Prometheus`
        - URL: `http://<your prometheus address>:9090`
        - Access: `Server`

    ![prometheus-connection](/images/rs/prometheus-connection.png)

    {{< note >}}

- If the network port is not accessible to the Grafana server, select the **Browser** option from the Access menu.
- In a testing environment, you can select **Skip TLS verification**.

    {{< /note >}}

1. Add dashboards for cluster, node, and database metrics.
    To add preconfigured dashboards:
    1. In the Grafana dashboards menu, select **Manage**.
    1. Click **Import**.
    1. Copy one of the configurations into the **Paste JSON** field.
        {{% expand "database.json" %}}

```json
{{% embed-code "/rs/database.json" %}}
```

        {{% /expand%}}
        {{%expand "node.json" %}}

```json
{{% embed-code "/rs/node.json" %}}
```

        {{% /expand%}}
        {{%expand "cluster.json" %}}

```json
{{% embed-code "/rs/cluster.json" %}}
```

        {{% /expand%}}
    1. In the Import options, select the `redis-enterprise` datasource and click **Import**.

The dashboards that you create from the configurations are sample dashboards.
For more information about configuring dashboards, see the [Grafana documentation](http://docs.grafana.org).
