---
Title: Redis Enterprise Software Release Notes 5.4.2 (April 2019)
description: 
weight: 86
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
---
[Redis Enterprise Software (RS) 5.4.2](https://redislabs.com/redis-enterprise/software/downloads/#downloads) is now available. RS 5.4.2 improves the compatibility of Active-Active Redis (CRDB) with standard Redis.

## Overview

You can upgrade to RS 5.4.2 from RS 5.0 and above according to the [upgrade instructions]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/upgrading.md" >}}).
If you have a version older than 5.0, you must first upgrade to version 5.2 (or at least 5.0).

## New Features

### Active-Active Redis (CRDB)

RS 5.4.2 introduces new Active-Active Redis (CRDB) capabilities and further improves its compatibility with standard Redis,
so you can easily direct your application from standard Redis to Active-Active Redis:

1. Just as in standard Redis, the string data-type in CRDB is now implicitly and dynamically typed.
   The string data-type checks the stored value dynamically to decide which commands can operate on the value.
   For example, you can first set a string key to "hello", use the APPEND command and then SET the same key to 3 and use the INCR command to update it to 8.
1. Geospatial data is supported now in CRDB.

These changes required upgrading the internal structures of CRDB and the communication protocol between the CRDB replicas.
To take advantage of these updates with existing CRDBs you must [upgrade their CRDB protocol]({{< relref "/rs/installing-upgrading/upgrading.md#upgrading-crdb" >}}).

### New backup destinations- SFTP & Mount Point

Starting from RS 5.4.2, the storage options for [periodic database backup]({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/database-backup.md" >}}), [data export]({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/exporting-data.md" >}}), and [data import]({{< relref "/rs/administering/database-operations/importing-data.md" >}}) are extended to include:

- SFTP - a secured and well accepted protocol
- A local mount path that can point to network storage

These new options are in addition to the existing backup locations of FTP, AWS S3 and OpenStack Swift.

### Email Alerts per database (per team member)

RS 5.4.2 improves distribution of [email alerts]({{< relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/security/account-management.md" >}}) for cluster or database alerts.
The cluster administrator can define for each team member the specific databases to receive alerts for, and whether to get the cluster alerts.

### Optional client authentication (TLS)

You can now better fine tune the [TLS configuration]({{< relref "/rs/administering/designing-production/security/tls-configuration.md" >}}) and exclude client authentication enforcement,
so that the database clients, such as applications or other clusters, can connect to your database without authentication.

### Node maintenance mode

When you do hardware or operating system maintenance on a server that hosts an RS node,
it is important that you move all of the shards on that node to another node to protect the data.
Starting from RS 5.4.2 you can use [maintenance mode]({{< relref "/rs/administering/cluster-operations/maintenance-mode.md" >}}) to handle this process simply and efficiently.

## Additional Capabilities

- Support for Redis version 5.0.4
- Viewer roles were limited to improve security compliance.
    The DB Viewer and Cluster Viewer roles cannot view the Redis password of a database.
    The DB Viewer role also cannot view the ‘log’ screen.

    {{% note %}}
These improvements are also included in the REST API and are breaking-changes.
If you use the relevant API requests with a DB Viewer or Cluster Viewer role, make sure that you update it accordingly.
    {{% /note %}}

- External user credentials for periodic backup destinations are now hidden.
    In REST API responses the password is hashed and in the web UI the password is displayed as asterisks.

## Information

- End of Life (EOL) for Redis Enterprise Software 5.0.0 is May 31st, 2019, in accordance with our [published policy]({{< relref "/rs/administering/product-lifecycle.md" >}}).
    We recommend that customers with version 5.0.0 or below upgrade to the latest version.

## Important Fixes

- RS26985 - Fixed a failure of a DB with all-nodes policy, when a node is rebooted
- RS26433 - Fixed a scenario in which the CRDB sync stopped on one of the participating clusters
- RS25968 - Fixed a redis crash on RoF cluster
- RS25835 - Fixed a failure in periodic backup when AOF rewrite is in progress on the same shard
- RS25558 - Enabled updating absolute path in periodic backup FTP setup
- RS25381 - Fixed a race condition while updating a database parameter
- RS24188 - Fixed a failure during database upgrade
- RS23508 - Fixed a failure in ‘rladmin status’ command
- RS22485 - Fixed irregularities in service after increasing the size of a database which uses OSS cluster API

## Known Limitations

### Upgrade

- Before you upgrade a database with RediSearch Module to Redis 5.0,
    the RediSearch [Module must be upgraded]({{< relref "/rs/developing/modules/upgrading.md" >}}) to version 1.4.2 or above.
- Node upgrade fails if the SSL certificate/s were configured in version 5.0.2 and above without using the new API, but by updating the certificates on the disk.
    For assistance with this issue, contact Support.
- We recommend that you test module upgrade commands in a test environment before you upgrade modules in a production environment.
    The module upgrade arguments are not validated during the upgrade process and incorrect arguments can cause unexpected downtime.

### Cluster API

- The API for node removal was updated. It must include json data, and "Content-Type: application/json" header. For example:

    ```src
    curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -i -k -u user@redislabs.com:passsword https://localhost:9443/v1/nodes/3/actions/remove --data "{}"
    ```

### Redis Commands

- The capability of disabling specific Redis commands does not work on Redis Module specific commands.
- The CLIENT ID command cannot guarantee incremental IDs between clients that connect to different nodes under multi proxy policies.
- CLIENT UNBLOCK command is not supported in RS 5.4 and RS 5.4.2
- Starting from RS 5.4.2 and after upgrading the CRDB, TYPE command for string data-type in CRDBs return "string" (OSS Redis standard).
