content/rs/administering/database-operations/deleting-database.md, before:

---
Title: Delete a Database
description:
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: /rs/administering/database-operations/delete-crdb/
---
To delete a database in Redis Enterprise Software:

1. Click the relevant database row in the **Databases** page. The
    selected database page appears.
1. Select the **Configuration** tab.
1. Click **Delete** at the bottom of the page.
1. Confirm the deletion.

## Deleting an Active-Active database

When you delete an Active-Active database (formerly known as CRDB),
all instance of the Active-Active database are deleted from all participating clusters.

{{% warning %}}
This action is an immediate, non-reversible, and has no rollback.
{{% /warning %}}

Because Active-Active databases are made up of instances on multiple participating clusters,
to restore a deleted Active-Active database you must create the database again with all of its instances
and then restore the data to the database from backup.

We recommended that you:

- Backup your data and test the restore on another database before you delete an Active-Active database.
- Consider [flushing the data]({{< relref "/rs/administering/import-export/flush-db-crdb.md" >}}) from the database
    so that you can keep the Active-Active database configuration and restore the data to it if necessary.

Commit message:

Redis Enterprise Software Security (#918)
* Initial security page

* Create _index.md

* Create _index.md

* Create _index.md

* Update _index.md

* Update _index.md

* Delete _index.md

* Delete _index.md

* Create control-plane-security

* Delete control-plane-security

* Create _index.md

* Create _index.md

* Create _index.md

* Create _index.md

* WIP

Mostly RBAC

* finalization of first draft.

* minor: edits

* Fix broken links

* Reorganize

* Fix build

* Update ldap.md

* Simplify org and improve checklist style

* Improve Log docs

* Improve database and control plane articles

* Formatting and typos

* Lower case admin console

* Replace web UI with admin console

* Limit description text in database maintenance overview

* Add Database Security to database maintenance

* Add installation prerequisite for security

* Fix broken links

* minor: rename

* minor: fix broken links

* minor: aliases

* minor: reorganize

* Refactoring

Co-authored-by: Jamie Scott <jamie.scott@uconn.edu>
Co-authored-by: Ben Mansheim <github@mansheim.com>

content/rs/administering/database-operations/deleting-database.md, after:

---
Title: Delete a Database
description:
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RS"]
aliases: /rs/administering/database-operations/delete-crdb/
---
When you delete a database, the database configuration and data are deleted.<!--more-->

To delete a database in Redis Enterprise Software:

1. Click the relevant database row in the **Databases** page. The
    selected database page appears.
1. Select the **Configuration** tab.
1. Click **Delete** at the bottom of the page.
1. Confirm the deletion.

## Deleting an Active-Active database

When you delete an Active-Active database (formerly known as CRDB),
all instance of the Active-Active database are deleted from all participating clusters.

{{% warning %}}
This action is an immediate, non-reversible, and has no rollback.
{{% /warning %}}

Because Active-Active databases are made up of instances on multiple participating clusters,
to restore a deleted Active-Active database you must create the database again with all of its instances
and then restore the data to the database from backup.

We recommended that you:

- Backup your data and test the restore on another database before you delete an Active-Active database.
- Consider [flushing the data]({{< relref "/rs/administering/import-export/flush-db-crdb.md" >}}) from the database
    so that you can keep the Active-Active database configuration and restore the data to it if necessary.
