content/rc/api/examples/audit-system-logs.md, before:

---
Title: Audit using Service Log
description: Using the Redis Labs system log to track and audit actions performed in the account
weight: 60
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rv/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log/
         /rc/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log/
         /rc/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log.md
         /rc/examples/audit-system-logs/
         /rc/api/examples/audit-system-logs.md
---
Service logs collect and report actions performed on various entities in your Redis Enterprise Cloud subscription.  These entities include the account itself, users, API Keys, subscriptions, databases, accounts, payment methods, and more. For each entity, various lifecycle events are logged in the system log.

You can view the system service log in the Redis Cloud admin console by selecting **Service log** from the console menu. This displays recent service log entries for the current account.

![Service service logs in the admin console](/images/rc/system_log.png)

### System service log API

The API operation for querying the system service log is `GET /logs`.

For example, the following request returns the latest 100 system log entries, in descending order:

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/80-query-logs.sh" %}}
```

The `/logs` API operation accepts the following parameters:

- `offset` - The starting point for the results.  The default value of `0` starts with the latest log entry. A value of `11` skips the first 10 entries and retrieves entries starting with the 11 and older.
- `limit` - The maximum number of entries to return per request. The default value is `100`.

{{< note >}}
The system log returns information for the entire account. It reports log entries for all types of entities, including Redis Labs Free, Fixed, and Flexible subscriptions, databases, and related entities.
{{< /note >}}

### Request results

An API system log request results in data that includes an `entries` array. The entries are sorted by system log entry ID in descending order and include the following properties:

- `id` - A unique identifier for each system log entry.

- `time` - The system log entry timestamp, defined in ISO-8601 date format and in the UTC timezone (for example: `2019-03-15T14:26:02Z`).

- `originator` - The name of the user who performed the action described by the system log entry.

- `apiKeyName` - The name of the API key used to perform the action described by the system log entry.
    This field only appears if the action was performed through the API.
    If the operation was performed through the Redis Cloud admin console, this property is omitted.

- `resource` - The name of the entity associated with the logged action (for example, database name).
    This property is omitted if it is not applicable to the specific log entry.

- `type` - The category associated with the action log entry.

- `description` - The detailed description of the action in the log entry.

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following updates
commit e26f2e90 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Tue Aug 10 2021 09:37:51 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Ugh.  Tpyo


commit 322e1820 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Mon Aug 09 2021 22:52:07 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    More updates


commit d589f766 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Mon Aug 09 2021 11:41:30 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Initial draft of changes


commit 46ba9c7a 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Fri Aug 06 2021 14:19:43 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Merge branch 'master' into content-updates to bring up-to-date with other project (though Fri Aug 6)


commit 0e20399b 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Fri Aug 06 2021 10:38:21 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated terraform IAM template json


commit 5feb8d43 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Fri Aug 06 2021 10:23:00 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated circleci jobs


commit 2a79ccb4 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Aug 03 2021 14:32:43 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated contribution and editing guides


commit a5a66a71 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Aug 03 2021 14:30:22 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated site title


commit 89cfb28c 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Jul 27 2021 17:13:57 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    updated footer


commit 94ae7731 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Jul 27 2021 17:12:44 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    logo


commit c8d1f0c2 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Jul 27 2021 16:34:56 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    README and LICENSE updates

content/rc/api/examples/audit-system-logs.md, after:

---
Title: Audit using Service Log
description: Use the service log to track and audit actions performed in the account
weight: 60
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rv/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log/
         /rc/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log/
         /rc/api/how-to/view-auditing-using-system-log.md
         /rc/examples/audit-system-logs/
         /rc/api/examples/audit-system-logs.md
---
Service logs collect and report actions performed on various entities in your Redis Enterprise Cloud subscription.  These entities include the account itself, users, API Keys, subscriptions, databases, accounts, payment methods, and more. For each entity, various lifecycle events are logged in the system log.

You can view the system service log in the Redis Enterprise Cloud admin console by selecting **Service log** from the console menu. This displays recent service log entries for the current account.

![Service service logs in the admin console](/images/rc/system_log.png)

### System service log API

The API operation for querying the system service log is `GET /logs`.

For example, the following request returns the latest 100 system log entries, in descending order:

```shell
curl -X GET "https://$HOST/logs?limit=100&offset=0" \
    -H "accept: application/json" \
    -H "x-api-key: $ACCOUNT_KEY" \
    -H "x-api-secret-key: $SECRET_KEY"
```

The `/logs` API operation accepts the following parameters:

- `offset` - The starting point for the results.  The default value of `0` starts with the latest log entry. A value of `11` skips the first 10 entries and retrieves entries starting with the 11 and older.
- `limit` - The maximum number of entries to return per request. The default value is `100`.

The system log reports activity for the entire account. It reports log entries for all types of entities, including subscriptions, databases, and so on.

### Request results

An API system log request results in data that includes an `entries` array. The entries are sorted by system log entry ID in descending order and include the following properties:

- `id` - A unique identifier for each system log entry.

- `time` - The system log entry timestamp, defined in ISO-8601 date format and in the UTC timezone (for example: `2019-03-15T14:26:02Z`).

- `originator` - The name of the user who performed the action described by the system log entry.

- `apiKeyName` - The name of the API key used to perform the action described by the system log entry.
    This field only appears if the action was performed through the API.
    If the operation was performed through the Redis Enterprise Cloud admin console, this property is omitted.

- `resource` - The name of the entity associated with the logged action (for example, database name).
    This property is omitted if it is not applicable to the specific log entry.

- `type` - The category associated with the action log entry.

- `description` - The detailed description of the action in the log entry.
