content/rc/api/examples/manage-cloud-accounts.md, before:

---
Title: Create and manage cloud accounts
description: Cloud accounts specify which account to use when creating and modifying infrastructure resources.
linkTitle: Manage cloud accounts
weight: 80
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rv/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts/
         /rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts/
         /rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts.md
         /rc/api/examples/managge-cloud-accounts
         /rc/api/examples/manage-cloud-accounts.md
---
You can use the Redis Enterprise Cloud REST API to create and manage cloud accounts.

These examples use the [`cURL` utility]({{< relref "/rc/api/get-started/use-rest-api.md#using-the-curl-http-client" >}}); you can use any REST client to work with the Redis Cloud REST API.

## Create a cloud account

To create a cloud account, use: `POST /cloud-accounts`

The following Linux shell script sends a `POST /cloud-accounts` and waits for a cloud account ID.
When the cloud account ID is received, the processing phase runs.

### Prerequisites

Before you use the API to create and manage a cloud account, you must:

- These example require `jq`, [a JSON parser](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/).  

    Use your package manager to install it  (Example: `sudo apt install jq`)

- Define the expected variables needed to use the API:

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/05-set-variables.sh" %}}
{{% embed-code "rv/api/60-cloud-account-set-variables.sh" %}}
```

### Cloud account JSON body

The created cloud account is defined by a JSON document that is sent as the body of the `POST cloud-accounts` request.

In the example below, that JSON document is stored in the `create-cloud-account-basic.json` file:

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/create-cloud-account-basic.json" %}}
```

### Cloud account creation script

You can run the **create cloud account** script from the command line with: `bash path/script-name.sh`.

Below is the sample script that you can use as a reference to call the API operation to create a cloud account.
The script contains the steps that are explained below.

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/50-create-cloud-account.sh" %}}
```

#### Step 1 of the cloud account creation script

This step executes a `POST` request to `cloud-accounts` with the defined parameters and a JSON body located within a separate JSON file.

The POST response is a JSON document that contains the `taskId`,
which is stored in a variable called `TASK_ID` that is used later to track the progress of the request.

#### Step 2 of the cloud account creation script

This step queries the API for the status of the cloud account creation request based on the `taskId` stored in the `$TASK_IS` variable.

#### Step 3 of the cloud account creation script

When the status changes from `processing-in-progress` to `processing-completed` (or `processing-error`),
this step prints the `response`, including the `resourceId`.
In this case, the `resourceId` is a cloud account ID.

If the processing phase completed successfully, the cloud account is visible
in the [Redis Labs management site](https://app.redislabs.com) in the `pending` status.
This status indicates that the cloud account is being provisioned.

You can use the `GET /cloud-accounts/{cloudAccountId}` API operation to track the created cloud account
until it changes to the `active` state.

Commit message:

Squashed commit of the following updates
commit e26f2e90 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Tue Aug 10 2021 09:37:51 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Ugh.  Tpyo


commit 322e1820 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Mon Aug 09 2021 22:52:07 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    More updates


commit d589f766 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Mon Aug 09 2021 11:41:30 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Initial draft of changes


commit 46ba9c7a 
Author: Lance Leonard <lanceleonard@users.noreply.github.com> 
Date: Fri Aug 06 2021 14:19:43 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Merge branch 'master' into content-updates to bring up-to-date with other project (though Fri Aug 6)


commit 0e20399b 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Fri Aug 06 2021 10:38:21 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated terraform IAM template json


commit 5feb8d43 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Fri Aug 06 2021 10:23:00 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated circleci jobs


commit 2a79ccb4 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Aug 03 2021 14:32:43 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated contribution and editing guides


commit a5a66a71 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Aug 03 2021 14:30:22 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    Updated site title


commit 89cfb28c 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Jul 27 2021 17:13:57 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    updated footer


commit 94ae7731 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Jul 27 2021 17:12:44 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    logo


commit c8d1f0c2 
Author: Rachel Elledge <rachel.elledge@redislabs.com> 
Date: Tue Jul 27 2021 16:34:56 GMT-0500 (Central Daylight Time) 

    README and LICENSE updates

content/rc/api/examples/manage-cloud-accounts.md, after:

---
Title: Create and manage cloud accounts
description: Cloud accounts specify which account to use when creating and modifying infrastructure resources.
linkTitle: Manage cloud accounts
weight: 80
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["RC"]
aliases: /rv/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts/
         /rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts/
         /rc/api/how-to/create-and-manage-cloud-accounts.md
         /rc/api/examples/manage-cloud-accounts
         /rc/api/examples/manage-cloud-accounts.md
---
You can use the Redis Enterprise Cloud REST API to create and manage cloud accounts.

These examples use the [`cURL` utility]({{< relref "/rc/api/get-started/use-rest-api.md#using-the-curl-http-client" >}}); you can use any REST client to work with the Redis Cloud REST API.

## Create a cloud account

To create a cloud account, use: `POST /cloud-accounts`

The following Linux shell script sends a `POST /cloud-accounts` and waits for a cloud account ID.
When the cloud account ID is received, the processing phase runs.

### Prerequisites

Before you use the API to create and manage a cloud account, you must:

- These example require `jq`, [a JSON parser](https://stedolan.github.io/jq/).  

    Use your package manager to install it  (Example: `sudo apt install jq`)

- Define the expected variables needed to use the API:

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/05-set-variables.sh" %}}
{{% embed-code "rv/api/60-cloud-account-set-variables.sh" %}}
```

### Cloud account JSON body

The created cloud account is defined by a JSON document that is sent as the body of the `POST cloud-accounts` request.

In the example below, that JSON document is stored in the `create-cloud-account-basic.json` file:

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/create-cloud-account-basic.json" %}}
```

### Cloud account creation script

You can run the **create cloud account** script from the command line with: `bash path/script-name.sh`.

Below is the sample script that you can use as a reference to call the API operation to create a cloud account.
The script contains the steps that are explained below.

```shell
{{% embed-code "rv/api/50-create-cloud-account.sh" %}}
```

#### Step 1 of the cloud account creation script

This step executes a `POST` request to `cloud-accounts` with the defined parameters and a JSON body located within a separate JSON file.

The POST response is a JSON document that contains the `taskId`,
which is stored in a variable called `TASK_ID` that is used later to track the progress of the request.

#### Step 2 of the cloud account creation script

This step queries the API for the status of the cloud account creation request based on the `taskId` stored in the `$TASK_IS` variable.

#### Step 3 of the cloud account creation script

When the status changes from `processing-in-progress` to `processing-completed` (or `processing-error`),
this step prints the `response`, including the `resourceId`.
In this case, the `resourceId` is a cloud account ID.

If the processing phase completed successfully, the cloud account is displayed
in the [admin console](https://app.redislabs.com) with a `pending` status.
This indicates that the cloud account is being provisioned.

You can use the `GET /cloud-accounts/{cloudAccountId}` API operation to track the created cloud account
until it becomes `active`.
