content/platforms/kubernetes/concepts/manage_REC_credentials.md, before:

---
Title: Manage Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) credentials
linkTitle: Manage REC credentials
weight: 93
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: /platforms/kubernetes/manage_REC_credentials/
---
The Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes uses a custom resource called RedisEnterpriseCluster to create a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC). At the time of creation, it generates random credentials the operator will use to perform operations on the Redis Enterprise cluster via the APIs. The credentials are saved in a Kubernetes (K8s) secret. The secret name defaults to the name of the cluster.

{{<note>}}
This procedure is only supported for operator versions 6.0.20-12 and above.
{{</note>}}

## Retrieve the current username and password 

The credentials can be used to access the cluster UI or the API. Connectivity must be configured to the cluster pods using an appropriate service (or port forwarding).

1. To inspect the random username and password created by the operator during creation, use the `kubectl get secret` command.

    ```
    $ kubectl get secret rec -o jsonpath='{.data}'
    map[password:MVUyTjd1Mm0= username:ZGVtb0ByZWRpc2xhYnMuY29t]
    ```

    The output will be the encoded password and username (the values above are examples).

1. To decode the encoded password and username, use `echo` command and the password from the previous step.

    ```
    echo MVUyTjd1Mm0= | base64 --decodexc
    ```

    This outputs the password and username in plain text. In this example, the plain text password is `12345678` and the username is `demo@redislabs.com`.

Note there are other methods to decode secrets.

## Change the Redis Enterprise cluster credentials

### Replace the REC password

1. Retrieve and take note of the current password (see above)
1. Access the console of a pod running a Redis Enterprise cluster.

    ```
    kubectl exec -it <rec-resource-name>-0 bash
    ```

1. From the pod console, add the new password for the existing user.
    ```
    REC_USER="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/username`"; \
    REC_PASSWORD="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/password`"; \
    curl -k --request POST --url https://localhost:9443/v1/users/password \
    -u "$REC_USER:$REC_PASSWORD" --header 'Content-Type: applicat
    ```

1. From outside the node pod, update the cluster credential secret:
    1. Save the existing username to a text file .
        ```
        echo -n "<current_username>" > username 
        ```

    1. Save the new password to a text file.
        ```
        echo -n "<new_password>" > password
        ```

    1. Update the cluster credential secret.
        ```
        kubectl create secret generic <cluster_secret_name> \
        --from-file=./username --from-file=./password --dry-run \
        -o yaml | kubectl apply -f 
        ```

    It may take up to five minutes for all the components to read the new password from the updated secret. 

1. Access the console of a pod running a Redis Enterprise cluster again.

    ```
    kubectl exec -it <rec-resource-name>-0 bash
    ```

 1. From within the pod, remove the previous password to ensure only the new one applies.
    ```
    REC_USER="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/username`"; \
    REC_PASSWORD="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/password`"; \
    curl -k --request DELETE --url https://localhost:9443/v1/users/password \ 
    -u "$REC_USER:$REC_PASSWORD" --header 'Content-Type: applic
    ```

### Replace the REC username and password

1. Sign in to the Redis Enterprise Cluster console.
1. [Add another admin user]({{< relref "rs/security/admin-console-security/user-security#configuring-users-with-roles" >}}) and choose a password.
1. Set the new username in the REC spec username field.
1. Update the cluster credential secret:

       1. Save the existing username to a text file.
        ```
        echo -n "<current_username>" > username
        ```

    1. Save the new password to a text file.
        ```
        echo -n "<new_password>" > password
        ```

    1. Update the cluster credential secret.
        ```
        kubectl create secret generic <cluster_secret_name> \
        --from-file=./username --from-file=./password --dry-run \
        -o yaml | kubectl apply -f 
        ```

It may take up to five minutes for all the components to read the new password from the updated secret.
1. Delete the previous admin user from the Redis Enterprise cluster console.

{{<note>}}
The operator may log errors in the time between updating the username in the REC spec and the secret update. 
{{</note>}}

Commit message:

correct curl commands and rephrase wait step

content/platforms/kubernetes/concepts/manage_REC_credentials.md, after:

---
Title: Manage Redis Enterprise cluster (REC) credentials
linkTitle: Manage REC credentials
weight: 93
alwaysopen: false
categories: ["Platforms"]
aliases: /platforms/kubernetes/manage_REC_credentials/
---
The Redis Enterprise Software on Kubernetes uses a custom resource called RedisEnterpriseCluster to create a Redis Enterprise cluster (REC). At the time of creation, it generates random credentials the operator will use to perform operations on the Redis Enterprise cluster via the APIs. The credentials are saved in a Kubernetes (K8s) secret. The secret name defaults to the name of the cluster.

{{<note>}}
This procedure is only supported for operator versions 6.0.20-12 and above.
{{</note>}}

## Retrieve the current username and password 

The credentials can be used to access the cluster UI or the API. Connectivity must be configured to the cluster pods using an appropriate service (or port forwarding).

1. To inspect the random username and password created by the operator during creation, use the `kubectl get secret` command.

    ```
    $ kubectl get secret rec -o jsonpath='{.data}'
    map[password:MVUyTjd1Mm0= username:ZGVtb0ByZWRpc2xhYnMuY29t]
    ```

    The output will be the encoded password and username (the values above are examples).

1. To decode the encoded password and username, use `echo` command and the password from the previous step.

    ```
    echo MVUyTjd1Mm0= | base64 --decodexc
    ```

    This outputs the password and username in plain text. In this example, the plain text password is `12345678` and the username is `demo@redislabs.com`.

Note there are other methods to decode secrets.

## Change the Redis Enterprise cluster credentials

### Replace the REC password

1. Retrieve and take note of the current password (see above)
1. Access the console of a pod running a Redis Enterprise cluster.

    ```
    kubectl exec -it <rec-resource-name>-0 bash
    ```

1. From the pod console, add the new password for the existing user.
    ```
    REC_USER="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/username`"; REC_PASSWORD="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/password`";curl -k --request POST --url https://localhost:9443/v1/users/password -u "$REC_USER:$REC_PASSWORD" --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data "{\"username\":\"$REC_USER\",\"old_password\":\"$REC_PASSWORD\", \"new_password\":\"<NEW PASSWORD>\"}"
    ```

1. From outside the node pod, update the cluster credential secret:
    1. Save the existing username to a text file .
        ```
        echo -n "<current_username>" > username 
        ```

    1. Save the new password to a text file.
        ```
        echo -n "<new_password>" > password
        ```

    1. Update the cluster credential secret.
        ```
        kubectl create secret generic <cluster_secret_name> \
        --from-file=./username --from-file=./password --dry-run \
        -o yaml | kubectl apply -f 
        ```

1. Wait five minutes for all the components to read the new password from the updated secret. If you proceed to the next step too soon, the account could get locked.

1. Access the console of a pod running a Redis Enterprise cluster again.

    ```
    kubectl exec -it <rec-resource-name>-0 bash
    ```

 1. From within the pod, remove the previous password to ensure only the new one applies.
    ```
    REC_USER="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/username`"; REC_PASSWORD="`cat /opt/redislabs/credentials/password`";curl -k --request POST --url https://localhost:9443/v1/users/password -u "$REC_USER:$REC_PASSWORD" --header 'Content-Type: application/json' --data "{\"username\":\"$REC_USER\",\"old_password\":\"$REC_PASSWORD\", \"new_password\":\"<NEW PASSWORD>\"}"
    ```

### Replace the REC username and password

1. Sign in to the Redis Enterprise Cluster console.
1. [Add another admin user]({{< relref "rs/security/admin-console-security/user-security#configuring-users-with-roles" >}}) and choose a password.
1. Set the new username in the REC spec username field.
1. Update the cluster credential secret:

       1. Save the existing username to a text file.
        ```
        echo -n "<current_username>" > username
        ```

    1. Save the new password to a text file.
        ```
        echo -n "<new_password>" > password
        ```

    1. Update the cluster credential secret.
        ```
        kubectl create secret generic <cluster_secret_name> \
        --from-file=./username --from-file=./password --dry-run \
        -o yaml | kubectl apply -f 
        ```

1. Wait five minutes for all the components to read the new password from the updated secret.If you proceed to the next step too soon, the account could get locked.

1. Delete the previous admin user from the Redis Enterprise cluster console.

{{<note>}}
The operator may log errors in the time between updating the username in the REC spec and the secret update. 
{{</note>}}
