content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/info.md, before:

---
Title: rladmin info
linkTitle: info
description: Shows the current configuration of a cluster, database, node, or proxy.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
headerRange: "[1-2]"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases:
---

`rladmin info` shows the current configuration of specified databases, proxies, clusters, or nodes.

## `info db`

`rladmin info db` lists configurable settings for databases.

```sh
rladmin info db [ {db:<id> | <name>} ]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| db:id     | ID of the specified database (optional) |
| name      | Name of the specified database (optional) |

### Returns

Returns a list of configurable settings for all databases.

If `db:<id>` or `<name>` is specified, returns a list of configurable settings for the specified database.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info db db:1
db:1 [database1]:
    client_buffer_limits: 1GB (hard limit)/512MB (soft limit) in 30 seconds
    slave_buffer: auto
    pubsub_buffer_limits: 32MB (hard limit)/8MB (soft limit) in 60 seconds
    proxy_client_buffer_limits: 0KB (hard limit)/0KB (soft limit) in 0 seconds
    proxy_slave_buffer_limits: 1GB (hard limit)/512MB (soft limit) in 60 seconds
    proxy_pubsub_buffer_limits: 32MB (hard limit)/8MB (soft limit) in 60 seconds
    repl_backlog: 1.02MB (1073741 bytes)
    repl_timeout: 360 seconds
    repl_diskless: default
    master_persistence: disabled
    maxclients: 10000
    conns: 5
    conns_type: per-thread
    sched_policy: cmp
    max_aof_file_size: 300GB
    max_aof_load_time: 3600 seconds
    dedicated_replicaof_threads: 5
    max_client_pipeline: 200
    max_shard_pipeline: 2000
    max_connections: 0
    oss_cluster: disabled
    oss_cluster_api_preferred_ip_type: internal
    gradual_src_mode: disabled
    gradual_src_max_sources: 1
    gradual_sync_mode: auto
    gradual_sync_max_shards_per_source: 1
    slave_ha: disabled (database)
    mkms: enabled
    oss_sharding: disabled
    mtls_allow_weak_hashing: disabled
    mtls_allow_outdated_certs: disabled
    data_internode_encryption: disabled
    proxy_policy: single
    db_conns_auditing: disabled
```

## `info proxy`

`rladmin info proxy` lists configurable settings for the proxy.

```sh
rladmin info proxy
```

### Parameters

None.

### Returns

Returns a list of configurable settings for the proxy.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info proxy
proxy:1
    mode: dynamic
    scale_threshold: 80 (%)
    scale_duration: 30 (seconds)
    max_threads: 8
    threads: 3
```

## `info cluster`

`rladmin info cluster` lists configurable settings for the cluster.

```sh
rladmin info cluster
```

### Parameters

None

### Returns

Returns a list of configurable settings for the cluster.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info cluster
Cluster configuration:
    repl_diskless: enabled
    shards_overbooking: disabled
    default_non_sharded_proxy_policy: single
    default_sharded_proxy_policy: single
    default_shards_placement: dense
    default_fork_evict_ram: enabled
    default_provisioned_redis_version: 6.0
    redis_migrate_node_threshold: 0KB (0 bytes)
    redis_migrate_node_threshold_percent: 4 (%)
    redis_provision_node_threshold: 0KB (0 bytes)
    redis_provision_node_threshold_percent: 12 (%)
    max_simultaneous_backups: 4
    slave_ha: enabled
    slave_ha_grace_period: 600
    slave_ha_cooldown_period: 3600
    slave_ha_bdb_cooldown_period: 7200
    parallel_shards_upgrade: 0
    show_internals: disabled
    expose_hostnames_for_all_suffixes: disabled
    login_lockout_threshold: 5
    login_lockout_duration: 1800
    login_lockout_counter_reset_after: 900
    default_concurrent_restore_actions: 10
    endpoint_rebind_propagation_grace_time: 15
    data_internode_encryption: disabled
    redis_upgrade_policy: major
    db_conns_auditing: disabled
    watchdog profile: local-network
    http support: enabled
    upgrade mode: disabled
    cm_session_timeout_minutes: 15
    cm_port: 8443
    cnm_http_port: 8080
    cnm_https_port: 9443
```

## `info node`

`rladmin info node` lists configurable settings for all nodes.

```sh
rladmin info db [ <id> ]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| id     | ID of the specified node |

### Returns

Returns a list of configurable settings for all nodes.

If `<id>` is specified, returns a list of configurable settings for the specified node.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info node 3
Command Output: node:3
    address: 172.31.42.179
    external addresses: N/A
    recovery path: N/A
    quorum only: disabled
    max redis servers: 100
    max listeners: 100
```

Commit message:

Made suggested changes to info.md - Changed "configurable settings" to "current configuration" - Added <id> | all for info proxy

content/rs/references/cli-utilities/rladmin/info.md, after:

---
Title: rladmin info
linkTitle: info
description: Shows the current configuration of a cluster, database, node, or proxy.
weight: $weight
alwaysopen: false
toc: "true"
headerRange: "[1-2]"
categories: ["RS"]
aliases:
---

`rladmin info` shows the current configuration of specified databases, proxies, clusters, or nodes.

## `info db`

`rladmin info db` shows the current configuration for databases.

```sh
rladmin info db [ {db:<id> | <name>} ]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| db:id     | ID of the specified database (optional) |
| name      | Name of the specified database (optional) |

### Returns

Returns the current configuration for all databases.

If `db:<id>` or `<name>` is specified, returns the current configuration for the specified database.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info db db:1
db:1 [database1]:
    client_buffer_limits: 1GB (hard limit)/512MB (soft limit) in 30 seconds
    slave_buffer: auto
    pubsub_buffer_limits: 32MB (hard limit)/8MB (soft limit) in 60 seconds
    proxy_client_buffer_limits: 0KB (hard limit)/0KB (soft limit) in 0 seconds
    proxy_slave_buffer_limits: 1GB (hard limit)/512MB (soft limit) in 60 seconds
    proxy_pubsub_buffer_limits: 32MB (hard limit)/8MB (soft limit) in 60 seconds
    repl_backlog: 1.02MB (1073741 bytes)
    repl_timeout: 360 seconds
    repl_diskless: default
    master_persistence: disabled
    maxclients: 10000
    conns: 5
    conns_type: per-thread
    sched_policy: cmp
    max_aof_file_size: 300GB
    max_aof_load_time: 3600 seconds
    dedicated_replicaof_threads: 5
    max_client_pipeline: 200
    max_shard_pipeline: 2000
    max_connections: 0
    oss_cluster: disabled
    oss_cluster_api_preferred_ip_type: internal
    gradual_src_mode: disabled
    gradual_src_max_sources: 1
    gradual_sync_mode: auto
    gradual_sync_max_shards_per_source: 1
    slave_ha: disabled (database)
    mkms: enabled
    oss_sharding: disabled
    mtls_allow_weak_hashing: disabled
    mtls_allow_outdated_certs: disabled
    data_internode_encryption: disabled
    proxy_policy: single
    db_conns_auditing: disabled
```

## `info proxy`

`rladmin info proxy` lists the current configuration for a proxy.

``` sh
rladmin info proxy { <id> | all }
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| id      | ID of the specified proxy |
| all       | Show current configuration for all proxies (optional) |

### Returns

If no parameter is specified or the `all` option is specified, `rladmin info proxy` returns the current configuration for all proxies.

If `<id>`is specified, returns the current configuration for the specified proxy.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info proxy
proxy:1
    mode: dynamic
    scale_threshold: 80 (%)
    scale_duration: 30 (seconds)
    max_threads: 8
    threads: 3
```

## `info cluster`

`rladmin info cluster` lists the current configuration for the cluster.

```sh
rladmin info cluster
```

### Parameters

None

### Returns

Returns the current configuration for the cluster.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info cluster
Cluster configuration:
    repl_diskless: enabled
    shards_overbooking: disabled
    default_non_sharded_proxy_policy: single
    default_sharded_proxy_policy: single
    default_shards_placement: dense
    default_fork_evict_ram: enabled
    default_provisioned_redis_version: 6.0
    redis_migrate_node_threshold: 0KB (0 bytes)
    redis_migrate_node_threshold_percent: 4 (%)
    redis_provision_node_threshold: 0KB (0 bytes)
    redis_provision_node_threshold_percent: 12 (%)
    max_simultaneous_backups: 4
    slave_ha: enabled
    slave_ha_grace_period: 600
    slave_ha_cooldown_period: 3600
    slave_ha_bdb_cooldown_period: 7200
    parallel_shards_upgrade: 0
    show_internals: disabled
    expose_hostnames_for_all_suffixes: disabled
    login_lockout_threshold: 5
    login_lockout_duration: 1800
    login_lockout_counter_reset_after: 900
    default_concurrent_restore_actions: 10
    endpoint_rebind_propagation_grace_time: 15
    data_internode_encryption: disabled
    redis_upgrade_policy: major
    db_conns_auditing: disabled
    watchdog profile: local-network
    http support: enabled
    upgrade mode: disabled
    cm_session_timeout_minutes: 15
    cm_port: 8443
    cnm_http_port: 8080
    cnm_https_port: 9443
```

## `info node`

`rladmin info node` lists the current configuration for all nodes.

```sh
rladmin info db [ <id> ]
```

### Parameters

| Parameter | Description |
|-----------|-------------|
| id     | ID of the specified node |

### Returns

Returns the current configuration for all nodes.

If `<id>` is specified, returns the current configuration for the specified node.

### Example

``` sh
$ rladmin info node 3
Command Output: node:3
    address: 198.51.100.17
    external addresses: N/A
    recovery path: N/A
    quorum only: disabled
    max redis servers: 100
    max listeners: 100
```
