content/embeds/cluster-setup.md, before:

1. In the web browser on the host machine, go to https://localhost:8443 to see
the Redis Enterprise Software web console.

    {{< note >}}
- Depending on your browser, you may see a certificate error. You can safely
continue to the web console.
- If you see an error from nginx, try again after a few minutes.
    {{< /note >}}

1. Click **Setup** to start the node configuration steps.

    ![Redis Enterprise Software Setup](/images/rs/getstarted-setup.png)

1. In the **Node Configuration** settings, enter a cluster FQDN such as `cluster.local`.
Then click **Next** button.

    ![Redis Enterprise Software node configuration](/images/rs/getstarted-nodeconfig.png)

1. Enter your license key, if you have one. If not, click the **Next** button to use the trial version.

1. Enter an email and password for the admin account for the web console.

    ![Redis Enterprise Software admin credentials](/images/rs/getstarted-admincredentials.png)

    These credentials are also used for connections to the REST API.

1. Click **OK** to confirm that you are aware of the replacement of the HTTPS SSL/TLS
certificate on the node, and proceed through the browser warning.

Commit message:

6.0.12 features (#1081)
* DOC-355 Module dependency installation not required (#1070)

* DOC-239 Add ports for internode encryption (#1053)

* DOC-353 Add article for password rotation (#1051)

* DOC-354 Disable services to save resources (#1074)

* Updates to disabling services based on feedback

* Updates to password rotation based on feedback

* Removed extra RS mentions

* Rewrite new password requirements

* DOC-352 Replace NGINX with Envoy (#1052)

* Add procedure for adding module with REST API (#1164)

* Fix broken build

* Add reference to /v2/modules in redisgears installation

* DOC-442 Add 6.0.12 release notes (#1176)

content/embeds/cluster-setup.md, after:

1. In the web browser on the host machine, go to https://localhost:8443 to see
the Redis Enterprise Software web console.

    {{< note >}}
- Depending on your browser, you may see a certificate error. You can safely
continue to the web console.
- If the server does not show the login screen, try again after a few minutes.

    {{< /note >}}

1. Click **Setup** to start the node configuration steps.

    ![Redis Enterprise Software Setup](/images/rs/getstarted-setup.png)

1. In the **Node Configuration** settings, enter a cluster FQDN such as `cluster.local`.
Then click **Next** button.

    ![Redis Enterprise Software node configuration](/images/rs/getstarted-nodeconfig.png)

1. Enter your license key, if you have one. If not, click the **Next** button to use the trial version.

1. Enter an email and password for the admin account for the web console.

    ![Redis Enterprise Software admin credentials](/images/rs/getstarted-admincredentials.png)

    These credentials are also used for connections to the REST API.

1. Click **OK** to confirm that you are aware of the replacement of the HTTPS SSL/TLS
certificate on the node, and proceed through the browser warning.
